this is an unfinished document the names are not assigned correctly to the statements consistently

AIU: Michael, Travis, Dan
The Maiden Voyage
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=[VIDEO_ID]

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

[0:00]

MICHAEL: Speaking and writing all comes from this universal fundamental
expression of nature that comes through us because we are that as well. You
know, it's not like we just watch the fire. We are the fire. We are the fire.

The Hebrew language and the glyphs that are in the Hebrew language were formed
out of the shapes that fire flames make. And that was, you know, developed over
God knows how long. People just literally interacting with fire and developing
this descriptive language that comes from nature itself.

And then, you know, when I started getting into fractal concepts and the
holographic nature of reality, it did make sense to me that there should be
some universal expression of nature that we can recognize in pattern. You know,
just like we see the Fibonacci sequence in shape, there has to be some sort of
pattern that exists that way in the audio world.

These glyphs that we talk about not only exist in fire, but they also exist
above our heads in the actual galaxy as expressions of nature.

TRAV: Oh yeah. I can imagine people sitting around the fire, you know, when it
was, you know, before Netflix, we had fire. And we would, I would imagine,
we're processing together around the fire with darkness all around us and we're
watching the fire intently and then we're communicating about things that
happened, maybe coming up with new words. And also the sky is there, right? The
stars and the heavens above us.

MICHAEL: That's right. Yeah. You know, and it's not just limited to one aspect.
It's not just audio, it's not just visual. Even dance was created out of the
imitation of these natural processes. And song comes, the rhythm itself comes
from the natural beat of the nature that we're living in.

So, you know, this is what I recognized: that language is much more than just
an arbitrary system of describing things. If we really understand language and
really choose to use it properly, it is the most powerful tool for creating
reality.

TRAV: And I've heard you say before, well, you have a lot of things to say
about language. One thing that you said to me recently that's really stuck with
me is how in our culture, the culture we grew up in, we read from left to right
and top to bottom. And that is kind of being, well, it's symbolic to me of
something that's being flipped these days.

MICHAEL: Absolutely. It's the beginning of our confusion. A good example, I
guess, and this is sort of a superficial example, but it's apt: We have words
in the English language that sound the same but mean different things. So I can
say the word "bear," and without context, we have no idea what that means. It
has no intrinsic meaning. It's just a symbol.

Excuse me just a second. Dan is knocking on the door. I'm going to let Dan in.
Save that space.

[Dan enters]

TRAV: Dan Greathouse, are you here, brother? Just for full disclosure, this is
our fourth member today. This is Sunny.

DAN: All right, Sunny. Oh, hey Dan.
 Hey, it's great to see you guys, man.

Trav: Man, you too. Good to see you. Let's see, you're coming in upside to me.
What a beautiful backdrop you've got there.

Dan: You want me to come in right side up? 

Trav: Me and Michael just jumped right
into it. I'm already recording. We're just a work in progress, right?

DAN: This is certainly progress. I mean, you and Michael and I started this
discussion. I know it's been more than a year ago that the three of us did the
phone calls.

TRAV: Three years ago. 

Dan: I love it, man. I'm just hanging out here with the cats
and Eli is somewhere running around in the house. Probably going to come over
and scratch my leg in a minute....

What does that mean for you? AIU, we're not trying to pretend we know
something when we don't know something, but at the same time, we share what
experiences and things we have learned. Being willing to even question those
things.

You know, at first I was kind of nervous about all this kind of stuff. I said,
"Wow, this is going to change the dynamic of our interaction." But I said, "No,
it doesn't have to. We can just kind of keep, I mean, we've been practiced at
this for a long time. Talking, giving, and taking."

So, being authentic, being real. Intelligence. I thought about that this
morning. I go, "Wow, that really puts me on the spot." And I have to admit,
even though I've assessed human intelligence for 25 years in formal public
school settings, university settings, and even for children and preschool age
children, that I can't speak with any authority about intelligence.

[5:00]

You know, it's like the very definitions of things have to come into question.
I have some ideas about what intelligence is. I know that there's a wide range
of intelligence and different gifts and different talents that people have. We
truly are diverse as a species.

What is intelligence? I mean, we have this artificial intelligence that's
encroaching upon us. So then let's contrast that with what is authentic
intelligence versus artificial intelligence. What makes that different?

TRAV: I think we've got a lot of topics in here, you know, and then the
university, defining what is the university. That's, you know, I hate to just
kind of regurgitate things that I learned so long ago in the liberal arts
program at Eastern New Mexico University, but our British lit teacher had us
read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.

And my concept of the university is not an actual physical place, but it's our
minds. That's the university. And I'm probably misquoting that book, but that
was the impact I got from all those lectures and reading that book and studying
British lit. The university. And so we have a university if we say we have one
and we include input and exchange of ideas in a free safe place.

DAN: I like it. I like it a lot. There's a loving respect that we each have for
one another.

TRAV: Man, me and Michael just started right off. That was a great kind of
maiden voyage moment. I think when you started I was like, "Oh yeah, it's
happening." Because there was that authentic intelligence that you could tell
you were speaking about something that has been deep meditations for you.

And I think that's one thing that happens that's really valuable in this group
of three, in this chord of three strands. It's just like it seems that we're
capable of giving one another room to really pour out those lifetime
meditations. And that's what I'm hearing from you too, Dan, in your first share
there.

DAN: Yeah, I'm so grateful to be here with both of you.

MICHAEL: Yeah, and I think Dan's right on point. This is where it begins for us
is defining these terms, defining exactly what it is that we are saying. And
you know, it's all in a name, right?

And so, you know, the name for us, this concept of authentic intelligence, I
think, is not something that we came up with. It's something that we
discovered. And so it's not really our job to redefine these things, per se.
It's more our responsibility to acknowledge them for what they are and to
discover the reality of authenticity and discover the reality of intelligence.

You know, we are in a situation where words are used as weapons. And so
seemingly just off-handed words that we use every day, we don't realize the
control and the construct that actually creates.

If it's true that language is our method of understanding and then relaying
that understanding of the world, then language is the beginning of our
collective construct. It is this way because we agree it's this way, right?
Because we accept the definitions of the reality that we were given.

And there are some of us in this world who refuse to accept those definitions
and they develop their own. And it's my opinion and my understanding that the
definitions that these types of people develop are not actually their own.
They're just discovering these ideas. They're discovering the true nature of
them.

And so one thing that I'm always very careful about when I'm doing research or
when I'm approaching a subject is this idea of confirmation bias. I want to go
in with zero information and discover that information and then attempt to
connect the dots if there are any spaces left in between.

The dangerous part for me is when I am exposed to some information about a
subject and then when I go into research and study it, I start looking for
those things that I heard previously to confirm that, even if it's just a
rudimentary or incorrect preliminary understanding. There's still this human
proclivity to confirmation bias, to find what we're looking for.

And so I'm very careful to not look for anything. I'm just trying to look at
these subjects for what they are.

[10:00]

And so I say all that to say that one of the most valuable things for me is
when I come upon one of these ideas or concepts on my own and then it's
confirmed by my further research into what other people have to say about it.

I think that's sort of a unique approach I take. I think most people would dive
into the research and figure out what other people say about it and then go
about learning whether or not that's right or wrong for themselves. I tend to
study these things on the natural level first and then dive into what other
people have said about them.

TRAV: So much what you said just about the learning process. And then I know
you, Michael, are really concerned about language, the linguistics, the
alphabet that makes up the language that tells the stories. And then what I
heard you talking about is your study process and what that's like for you and
how you see other people studying. And I love to hear about that stuff.

MICHAEL: Yeah. And for me growing up as a young child, my question was
consistently "why." And I would drill with that question until I either got an
answer that was satisfactory or they told me "I don't know." Those were the two
end points for me.

And there were a lot of people who tried to tell me that there was a gray area
there, that even though they didn't know, I should accept what they're saying
because generally it's true. And that was always very difficult for me. I could
never take people's word for things.

And so this concept of language and the fact that there is a natural expression
happening in the world, operating on that level when it comes to language gives
us a foundation for understanding, whereas our current education model on
language does not give us a fundamental understanding. It gives us arbitrary
symbolism.

So when they said to me in grade school "A says ah," I said "why?"

TRAV: I heard you talking about your inquiry process. You said "I ask until I
get a satisfactory answer or the person that I'm asking says I don't know."
Two possible outcomes there. And when somebody tells you that this symbol says
"ah," you say "why?"

Whereas I think the traditional model, or what we teach our kids, let's say, is
"don't ask questions, just learn it, right? Do your best." That's what we call
doing your best in school: just memorize what they're telling you so that when
test time comes around you can regurgitate it.

MICHAEL: And I was never really good at that. I learned to do it to survive in
that system, but it was never really my MO. My MO was I want to feel this
thing. I want to experience it. I want to be with it and then listen to what
you have to say about it because that will not only help me understand the
subject, but it also let me understand you.

And I couldn't have articulated all these things as a young man, but that is
the way I've operated.

TRAV: I love that experience. And are you experienced? For me, it was Jimi
Hendrix in the Are You Experienced album. Mitch Mitchell, Noel Redding, and
Jimi Hendrix asking me, "Are you experienced?"

But you told a story the other day, Michael, about what it was like for you as
a seven, eight year old in Sunday school class when you ask questions like why
or how or what.

MICHAEL: Yeah. And it's still the answer I get today, which is "don't ask
questions, just listen to what I'm telling you." And I've applied this
everywhere in my life: medicine, law, finance, education, language. It's all
this way.

And I've had a few interesting jobs in my life and my question is always why.
So when I start a new job, they're training me and they're like, "okay, you do
this, then you do this, then you do this." And I say why? And they say, "Oh,
well, it's just the way we do it."

[15:00]

That is the most unacceptable answer that anyone could give. That shows a
complete lack of not only motivation to understand anything but also just this
sort of rampant method of being that we've adopted especially here in America,
which is "this is what they say I have to do so this is what I do."

TRAV: I called the guy last year. I had a star in my windshield and I called
Safelight and they sent this guy out. I actually made a video out of it. But he
was talking about how he's been fixing things like that for years and so he's
really familiar with the tools and he knows how to problem solve.

But he was telling me, having done this for 30 plus years, what it was like
working with people who only knew how to run the Safelight system. They just
know the tools and so they don't really know how to problem solve. They're just
kind of plugged into a pre-existing system and say "do this, if this happens do
A or B," but you don't really know what you're doing because you haven't been
working with glass for many many years.

So I thought that was, yeah, what you're saying. It's just so true across the
board. Generally it's pretty, I think it's just kind of generally understood
now that our education system is basically kind of creating cogs for systems
and not true conscious problem solvers.

DAN: And Dan, you've, I mean, you're an educational diagnostician for how many
years?

DAN: 25 years. And chiming in on that, along with your windshield person that
was able to do things as opposed to the newcomers into the business that only
knew just the one method: One of the areas that's assessed for human
intelligence is the ability to problem solve in a completely novel situation.

That's why on formal cognitive measures, those assessment kits are under lock
and key. They're not to be displayed public domain. Whenever a student is
assessed with intelligence, they cannot have seen particular subtests ahead of
time. It has to be a novel situation in which they have to solve a problem and
get to an achieved result.

And the ability to navigate new and dynamic situations, which is where we're at
with our world and our civilization right now. We are facing things that our
predecessors did not face, especially with this area of communication.

I'm completely, and I was, I'm sorry I didn't chime in earlier or get in on the
conversation earlier because Michael, the alphabet that's behind you, these are
symbols of sounds and they also have numerical meanings. This is from the
Hebrew language.

MICHAEL: I would say that Hebrew is considered one of the foundational
languages, where English was derived and all this. There are others, other
original languages, let's call them. But they are all expressions of nature.
The glyphs themselves...

[20:00]

And the thing that I'm taken with is in the beginning. In our own brains we
have to, if we start talking about intelligence, which is going to be a very
daunting task to define, that's going to be a great point of discussion for all
three of us. And even if we need to pull in an expert or someone that has even
more knowledge about this.

But in the very beginning, just inside our own physical structure of the brain,
we have to communicate. The neurons have to communicate with each other. They
have to have these impulses, the electrical charge, for there to be any
communication.

And then you have a whole network of these neurons that are firing. They're
either firing or not firing at the basic level, is my understanding.

DAN: Now there may be some science that's showing different things, but that
was just what I was taught. And anything that I share can be brought into
question. I'm not so proud or so haughty that I can't be challenged on anything.

But that very basic thing, the communication is important, and without that
firing just in our own physical brains, we can't even come up with thoughts.
And so then there's a firing that happens between us with our verbal abilities,
and then the written language even expands our ability to communicate.

Because of the written language, we're able to read texts from our
predecessors, whether it's the Pentateuch or whatever written language there is
before us. We're able to glean information or our own existence can be impacted
from people that are no longer even alive, as opposed to like an oral
tradition.

Well, an oral tradition has a place too. And so the communication is the key
for any type of a university setting, and communication is essential for
intelligence.

And I guess some of the problems that we're facing right now is: Is it
authentic? I mean, these are questions we need to ask. Someone's communicating
to me something. Are they being authentic with me? Do they care about me?

There's a lot of con things that are going on in our world. A lot of confident,
you know, they gain people's confidence and they really have no interest in us.
They have just interest in selfish things for themselves and they will use us
or whatever. Does that kind of make sense, fellas?

TRAV: Everything you're saying makes sense to me. You used the phrase "in the
beginning" earlier and I love it when that phrase shows up. It reminds me of
"In the beginning God created," also "In the beginning was the Word and with
God and the Word was God."

And origin stories, right? And so this group has an origin story that we can
explore. And Michael's already been talking about origins of language. Michael,
you're like the word guy. You're always like, "Okay, I studied, I looked this
up, you're into the word." See, right now, I mean, I know you're into a lot of
words, but this is one you've been sharing with me lately.

[25:00]

MICHAEL: Yeah. And just kind of going back a little bit on what Dan was saying,
this idea that we don't know how to discover the answers to things is kind of
how we got into this situation, right?

We've adopted a social way of sharing information that requires what we call
experts or people with these so-called degrees and all of these things. When in
reality we can look out into the real world and see that most of the successful
people are the people that avoided this indoctrination system. Either they're
dropouts or they were forced out of the school for some reason, and they ended
up just being entrepreneurs and doing their own thing.

And for me, this is the value of authenticity versus the value of having all of
your value placed in other people's opinions of you and of your information.

And so we see it in the academic field quite a bit. We see how this idea of
peer review, right, so there can be no new ideas if they don't align with the
old ideas. So that just puts a huge damper on any kind of real evolution in the
fields.

And that's a documented and sort of forced example. We have subtle and just
sort of normal ways of being and doing things where we adopt this same practice
and we don't even notice it. And this all stems from this incorrect idea that
we don't have a way to discover these answers for ourselves.

TRAV: As a creator, as an artist, as somebody who's been trying to, you know,
there's this idea that we're going to do something original. Like Queen, Freddy
Mercury, that sound. Who sounds like that? Just sounds like Queen. Rush just
sounds like Rush. There is this thing that we can do where it's like we come up
with a sound that hasn't quite been heard before.

Also, this comes right into this idea of liberals and conservatives, to me.
Conservation. What deserves to be conserved?

We know that we can't really learn anything outside of our culture. We're born
into culture. We're born into families. We're born into particular bodies.
We're given a certain context as a young person into which everything's going
to come.

Now, according to Thomas Aquinas, I've been reading a book about him recently,
and he says that there are some people who are looking at primal cause instead
of the more proximal effects of those causes. I think you and I think we all
have that in common. We're trying to get to the bottom of things.

And concerning "in the beginning God created," "in the beginning was the word,"
these are sacred texts that have been passed down. And also from what I
understand, the sacred texts are telling us that there is an internal source,
that God is within us, that there is this source of knowledge that is within
each of us.

And so there's this liberation from this idea that "well, an expert has to tell
me."

[30:00]

I worked for eight years as a licensed physical therapist assistant in the
state of New Mexico, right there where you guys are at. And I was working
within a centralized medicinal system.

So I have to go through these initiation ceremonies, where I have to go to the
school, I have to get qualified just to participate, just to show up, to be
able to put my hands on somebody or to put my heart on somebody and to help
somebody through a process. So I've got teachers, they teach me.

And I know, so each of us have been through, we've all listened, is it okay if
we talk about the program that we kind of all met in? Or we...

MICHAEL: I think we should, without specifically naming it, that we talk about
a program, a 12-step recovery program that has 12 steps. I think that's fine.

TRAV: In the beginning there was step one. At step one we arrive at some kind
of helplessness, at some kind of unmanageable situation. Like I have to admit
that I'm powerless over something.

I love beginnings. I love creation stories. And that's kind of where we're
created. And the 12-step program, as far as I understand, is trying to help us,
or there's some kind of, it tapped into something that was liberating in
nature. They didn't quite create it, but they kind of did. It was like
something, and they also built it as they flew.

They didn't come up with the answer about how to help people except by
experience. When they both went to a third person and brought, they kind of
said, "Hey, this is what's worked for us. We think we have something that's
going to work for you."

The two of them got together and exchanged. They communicated and they accepted
that they thought they found something to help in the suffering of their
malady. And then they took it to a third person and then it just expanded
exponentially.

And so with that, I mean, the three of us have this common spiritual
kindergarten, so to speak, that we've all come from, and that has been a
fertile ground to allow us to spring forth into this university idea.

DAN: This is going to be the most important thing I'll ever do in my life. That
the two of you, and to see what's going to happen from here, and to also know
that it's not about me. I'm not going to be the important person. I'm going to
be one neuron inside the matrix of all of this thought process that's going to
revolutionize the world. I believe that.

MICHAEL: That's right, man. And I just want to touch on something you said
earlier. We were talking about this neuron firing and how this process happens.
We're talking about the network that exists in the brain, but we can apply this
to the network that we're creating here at AIU.

The only thing that causes these synapses and these brain signals to fire or
not fire is connection. If two brain cells are not connected, that synapse
doesn't happen. And the way they connect is new ideas.

When new information is introduced to the brain, there are new neural
connections that are formed and new synapse firings that happen. And so this
whole construct of peer review and this idea that we need to consult with
experts literally keeps our brain trapped in a constructed cycle of thinking.
There are no new firings. There are no new connections being made.

[35:00]

And we use this in language, right? When I say that language expresses itself
in nature, we just say these things like "Oh, I can't make that connection,"
meaning I don't understand. And it's this idea that we can't make this
connection in our brain to make these firings happen.

And so that's why I say that it's very important that we study these things for
ourselves versus listening to people who say they know something about it.

I will submit that the Olympic swimmer knows infinitely more about the
properties of water than the physicist. On a much more intimate level. Yes, he
may not have the language that they've developed so that he can describe it, so
that they can peer review it, so that they can approve it. But I guarantee you
when it comes to understanding, that swimmer will, if he were to apply that
understanding to inventing something or coming up with some sort of solution
for a problem that involves water, he would just completely blow that other guy
out of the water. Sorry for the horrible pun.

DAN: On that light, if everything in our history had been peer-reviewed, then
no one would have ever left Europe and sailed because the world was flat.
You're going to fall off the edge. And we would not be flying because we were
told that only birds can fly. Everything should be questioned. It's okay to
question. Questioning is good.

TRAV: Well, we're constantly reviewing one another in this process, right?
We're constantly kind of, well, I don't know what it's like for you guys, but
I'm listening, and then I have an idea that comes into my mind which is like
context, and I think I'm understanding, and then I try to let go of that idea
so that we're coming to some kind of understanding about where this
conversation is going.

So there's some kind of real time peer review going on. But what I think, so
there's definitely substance to reviewing one another, I think. And then also
we can't really learn anything, there is something about conservation. There
are lineages, spiritual lineages, educational lineages. We pass things down.

And then also the way that humanity, the way that humans tend to systemize
things and institutionalize things. There seems to be something inherently
limiting and controlling about that, if I'm listening to what Michael's saying
correctly.

MICHAEL: Absolutely.

DAN: We have this mutual respect for each other. We stand ready to be corrected
because it's not done in any kind of negative way or demoting kind of way.
That's the one thing that I attribute to the background 12-step program that's
given us a foundation to respectfully listen to each other.

[40:00]

TRAV: Two things I wanted to say to complete a thought. One thing was that,
apparently, part of our principles, our shared principles, I think we believe
that our recovery, or the ignition of that truly university experience, depends
on our unity. So we are, even if we have different thoughts, there's some kind
of unity we must continue.

Also, as a songwriter, as a writer, as a creative, I know that to, how it's
been for me, I study things that have happened before. I listen to music. I
study music. I learn other people's songs. If I'm going to be a composer, I
study composition. So that's the conservative element.

And then there is this place where, like I went to music school, and at some
point I had to just unlearn just about everything that I learned at music
school. At some point I was like, "I've got to get out of this place if it's
the last thing I ever do." I've got to go.

And that's my relationship with institutions. I move into institutions and I
have this capacity to respect what's going on there. I listen to my teachers
and then at some point, no matter how much I'd like to just kind of join the
family and stay, I have to go.

For instance, when I'm working in centralized medicine, I'm a healer certainly,
and I loved working with all of my clients. There was this one-on-one thing
that happened between myself and them that sometimes I saw miracles happen,
sometimes I saw healings happen. And then sometimes I also had to learn what it
was like just to not have anything to offer.

Because ultimately, in those eight years, what I learned, all I can really do
is empower people to go on their own healing journeys. And I think that's one
way I can describe what we're doing here at Authentic Intelligence University.

MICHAEL: Very important, man. You know, when I used to ask the question "why"
and drill, it was because I gained a valuable piece of information by doing
that.

If I was asking why and the person eventually got to the point where they were
able to say "You know what, I don't know," then that let me know that they had
no authenticity about the subject. They had not explored it within themselves,
so they didn't have that answer for me.

If they got to the other side, which is "Because this book says this" or "There
was an experiment that was done and these were the results," then I can know,
okay, they do have some understanding, but it's not authentic. So I could weigh
what they gave me against my own spirit. I could weigh their answer against my
own self-exploring understanding of it and then make a determination whether or
not that was true.

But without either one of those pieces of information, I could not move forward
with that person. If they weren't willing to admit they didn't know and they
also weren't willing to admit that anything they did know about it came from
someone else, they couldn't answer me. They had no answer for me.

[45:00]

And so that's what I was really doing with this process: I was drilling to
figure out who I was talking to. Because if I'm going to search for answers, I
want to make sure that I'm looking in a place that's coming from nature, that's
coming from reality, that's not coming from a book.

And if it is coming from that book, that's cool, I'll take that. But let me
weigh it now against nature. Let me weigh it against reality and see if it does
fit.

TRAV: Along the lines of swimming, I used to say this about music: you don't
talk about swimming to learn how to swim. You must jump in the water. And it's
just like that with music.

And I think what you're talking about too is really establishing relationships.
This is how I gauge who I need to be in a relationship with. The reason I'm
talking with you guys right now is because even in the push and pull of this
relationship, you guys have an understanding of how that works.

And there's, because really, as far as I understand, we're trying to tap in, or
we believe we know that we can tap into an intelligence that's greater than
ourselves. There's a synergy here, it's greater than just the sum of our parts.

DAN: Absolutely. There is a premise that I think, and correct me if I'm wrong,
I think we all kind of accept: the premise that there is an intelligence that's
greater than ourselves individually.

MICHAEL: Yes, I acknowledge that there is something that is beyond description.
It's ineffable. As soon as I try to describe it, it's beyond my language. Like
the Tao that can be named is not the Tao at all.

And then even like there's this idea of Christ being the Word of God. And yet
somehow for 2,000 years we've been doing some really really strange and
terrible, hurtful, hateful things in the name of Jesus, oftentimes. Which kind
of touches on our idea of institutionalizing the truth.

So it's good to have a healthy skepticism and question things. It seems very
good. It seems to be healthy experience. And more importantly, to not stop that
process until you get an answer.

Because language is a perfect example of how we just accept these things
without questioning. "A says ah" because they said so. There is no intrinsic
natural process that says "A says ah." It's just an arbitrary decision that
someone made and then decided that that was good for everybody.

[50:00]

And then now we're in a situation where we're speaking codes, we're speaking
language, and we have no clue what we're talking about.

TRAV: So we've all agreed many times already during this conversation that "ah"
means, I mean, because we're, and we all read from top down and left to right
too. And yet somehow we're still questioning all of that, I guess.

MICHAEL: And I want to kind of give an example for us to look at to see how
they use language to flip reality on us.

We mentioned earlier this phenomenon, this liberal-conservative battle, let's
say. It's a phenomenon that's happening in our country for sure. And it's so
interesting to me because they call themselves these terms. They call
themselves liberals and they call themselves conservatives.

TRAV: I was going to ask you who "they" were.

MICHAEL: So in this situation, "they" are the people who call themselves
liberals, the people who call themselves conservatives, the people who call
themselves Christians, the people who call themselves Jewish, the people who
call themselves Muslims, the people who call themselves atheists.

It's the people that not only accept the definitions that were given to them
without questioning them, but now they turn and take those definitions and then
use them as presentation tools if not weapons against others.

And so the word "liberal," it comes from the word "liber," the Latin term which
means to be free. But they tell you all the time what you can't do. So their
name means freedom, but their behavior is flipped.

Then you have conservatives. Now, the root word of that is "serve." And the
prefix "con" means together. They're together. And they refuse to work together
with anybody other than themselves.

So these are the ways that they sort of use language to present something that
in reality is not conservative, but they will label it as conservative and use
that flipping technology to make us believe that they are conservatives.

This is what they do with language in general. This is what the DSM in
psychology is all about. You know, this labeling process. It starts in school.
I see it with my young boys. They're in kindergarten and second grade and they
are being conditioned. They're being told "when you see this, it means this."
They are not given questions. They're not shown a balloon and said, "What does
this mean to you?" They're saying "This is a balloon." And because everybody
says it's a balloon, if you say it's anything other than a balloon, you're
wrong.

[55:00]

DAN: And then back to this dichotomy of liberal and conservative, on the most
extremes, there's no longer any communication going on. And I can't speak as a
neurologist. This is not my place or area of expertise. But I would assume once
communication ceases between neurons in your brain, your actual physical brain,
then you are going to have a pathology or a sickness or dementia.

And I stand to be corrected by a neurologist on that. But if there's not a
communication between neurons, there can be no good come from that.

And so that's the great breakdown. We have the Led Zeppelin song, Communication
Breakdown. We have a huge communication breakdown going on all around the
world. Isn't it ironic? We have the greatest means of communicating now. I
mean, look, the three of us, we're not even geographically in the same place,
and yet we're here together.

MICHAEL: And that's what censorship is all about. When they want to censor the
words that people say, it's to stop the connection between people so that the
neural network of America does not fire that way. So that the neural network of
America does not create new connections and new ideas. It only continues
thinking in the same path that it's conditioned to do.

And I got to ask forgiveness for pointing out all these problems. I don't like
being on this tip, but I do feel that it's necessary that if we're going to
develop a solution to a problem, we fully understand the problem.

TRAV: I agree.

DAN: As a teacher, I try to identify fundamentals. And fundamentally, this is
one of the teachings that I've been bringing forth consistently over the last
years, very simple: Each of us needs to embody a full measure of the
conservative and the liberal.

TRAV: What exists that deserves to be conserved? How can we serve together in
what already is? In what already exists. How can we kind of say, yeah, that's,
because we're standing on the shoulders of giants. I mean, the human species,
as far as I understand, was very, to your point, Dan, like we know how to solve
novel problems.

When an ice age comes, we're like, "Whoa, this is hard, but we can do this."

[1:00:00]

And I don't know, there's a lot up in the air about what human history was
trying to say. I've studied a lot and a lot of what I've studied now people are
going, "I don't think quite that way." And so I'm not nailing anything down
there, but I'm just speaking of what conservation is like, and then I'm
speaking of what liberation is like.

Christ for me, Yeshua, the one we call Jesus, he was born into a system. He
studied in a system. He's conserving the system. He's using the stories and he
has an understanding of the people that he's born into. And then he's also
saying, "Hey, we must be liberated here."

Leviticus says, "Don't drink blood." God says in Leviticus, don't drink blood.
Don't eat, don't touch the flesh of even your dead relatives. And Jesus comes
saying, "Go ahead, eat, drink my blood, eat my flesh."

So he's directly, the language of the son of God, that's part of what
son-of-god-ness is, is that it's a full measure of the liberator and the
conservative.

So this is as far as you're talking about addressing particular issues. I think
this is fundamental in nature and I think it's fundamental in our learning
process because we have to acknowledge our teachers, the shoulders of the
giants on which we stand. And then we also have to be fully committed, fully
abandoned to the liberation process also.

And I would even say that we can't truly be liberated until we're loving and
acknowledging our ancestors. And I believe that we honor our ancestors, that we
honor our parents by getting free from the bondage that our parents were born
into.

And sometimes that may look like conflict. And as far as recovery process, one
thing I've learned over the past years is that one way that I can honor my
ancestors is by getting free from what my ancestors were in bondage to, even
when and if that offends them sometimes.

DAN: I agree. That resounds with me.

MICHAEL: Yeah. And when we think about words and language and how it affects
who we are and how we live, the written word was the first recording.

We have video now and we can take a picture to document something that actually
happened in reality. Before the written word there was no way to record
anything. You just talked about it. You told your friends about it. You told
your family about it. They asked you what happened yesterday, what's going to
happen tomorrow. That was the only way. There was no way to record that, to
capture an idea, to be able to distribute it to other people.

[1:05:00]

The written word was developed to solve this problem, which was: I have an idea
but if people aren't here to hear me, then they never get to see the idea. So
we developed this method of recording things and it was done with the intent of
posterity, keeping an accurate record of things so that we could pass this down
to future generations and maybe give them a little head start, a little
understanding that we didn't have when we were at that age.

Well, that's great, but the problem with that is that it can be changed. The
written word can be altered so that the person in the future reading it doesn't
get the original information. That worked for a while as long as people were
relatively honest, but then after a while, misinformation took that whole thing
over.

Now we're experiencing the same thing with images and video. Those used to be
the record of things. We would say to people "no pic, then it didn't happen."
And so now with AI and these technologies that are coming out, we can't trust
pictures and videos anymore. Just like the written word can be corrupted, now
these records can be corrupted.

And so this really points out the necessity of decentralization. This points
out the dire need for humanity to have an informational system that is not
centralized, where someone is arbitrarily telling you "this is what this
means," "this is what happened on this date."

We don't have an immutable record other than what we would call the Akashic
records, the ancestral knowledge that Travis is referring to. And so that for
now has to be where we seek information because it is the only immutable record
that exists.

We can read about history, but we know that history is written by the winners.
And we can watch videos, but we know that videos are created and produced by
somebody with some agenda, as small as that agenda might be.

So developing a decentralized immutable record is going to be one of the
cornerstones of freedom, especially in America, but globally.

[1:10:00]

DAN: Yeah, I mean, I think we're talking about the need for liberation of all
humanity and not any kind of boundaries. I think that we're talking about
something that is so universal that it appeals to people all around the world,
no matter what country they're in, no matter what religion, no matter what
their walk of faith is, or even if they're atheists.

We have common problems that we need to come together and solve. And we will
not solve these problems as a species. We will not overcome these problems if
we cannot clearly communicate with each other.

MICHAEL: And we've got to know that karma exists. That there is a balance in
the world and that balance is an equilibrium that exists in nature. Nature is
always seeking balance, otherwise it's destroyed.

So when we sort of approach these things, we've got to know that there is a
base reality that's occurring and no matter how much malicious code we inject
into the system and think we're getting away with it, in the end, there is a
result. It may not be an immediate result, but there is a result over the
course of the system and the way it runs.

For example, I buy an iPhone. I benefit, we benefit. But what about the person
who had to make the iPhone? Because we know about these stories that Apple is
using all this labor, illegal labor practices and these types of things. And
that's not even getting into the mining of the resources.

DAN: There are children in Africa in cobalt mines, in holes, digging that blue
mineral out and dying at young ages from exposure.

MICHAEL: We can go on with this, but they're doing that so that I can be on
Zoom here with you today. Is there going to be a karmic response from nature
for that? Will I pay for that?

And so these are the things that we don't think about because we don't consider
humanity. And I consider this a very American problem.

I agree with America first because I compare it to the concept of "I got to
take care of me before I take care of you." So I agree with America first. I do
not agree with America only.

[1:15:00]

And I think this is where we've gotten into a big problem as Americans. We are
benefiting ourselves. And our house is badass, man. We live in the mansion down
the street, but just down the street there are people that can't even eat, that
can't even live today.

And so America first is great, but what will be the karmic response for us not
considering the rest of the world in our growth?

DAN: That's a good point. What will be the outcome of us living in the
wonderful lifestyle we live in whenever there are other people in the world
that are suffering the wounds and inflictions and starvation that are brought
upon them by the greed of the people that are even above the three of us?

They're so high up in the scale that we may never even know their names. I
think that many of the people that we see on the networks and everything,
they're just like bishops in the game of chess. Bishops or knights or rooks.
They're not even the inner circle. There's no telling who's in the inner
circle.

But I digress. Here we are. What's going to be the outcome? It's like if we
keep flushing our sewage down the river. It goes down the river and we think of
no consequence. And we keep flushing the plastics down the river and then it
winds up in the ocean. Eventually there'll be a consequence. They've already
discovered that plastic is in every living organism on the planet earth.
There's some molecule of plastic.

TRAV: I agree in premise. It is true that in my own life if I do not take care
of what's going on right here, then I can't really be of any assistance or help
to anyone.

And then also, in the using of a term like "America first," that has
contemporary connections, right? When you have an icon of American culture who,
those two words become like a political agenda, then you have to be like
Michael and be like, "What do you mean? What does that, I mean, because in
premise, it's kind of like that."

It's just cliche at this point, but if you're in an airplane and the oxygen
mask comes down, put yours on first because if you don't have that oxygen,
you're not going to be able to help your three children to get their masks on.
So in premise, yes.

[1:20:00]

And I mean, I think the question is right. If that's true, then even in our
group I would say "hey, us first." We got to take care of us.

And if you're in a small tribe, the way I understand, if we can use
evolutionary terms to describe the origin of humanity, I read that we competed
against one another not as individuals so much but groups competing against
groups. I'm not into Darwinism, but these ways of thinking are embedded.

And so I have to be able to, even as I use an example like this, because if I
start speaking about evolution, then somebody might be like "oh yeah," or if I
use the term "America first," then somebody be like "oh, I know who you are."

It's interesting because we can't even use, when we're talking about words and
who owns words. Like for me, one term that's incredibly important is the term
non-binary or non-dual or not-separate, not-two.

To me, Christ is my non-binary brother. He's the one who said, "Hey, we are not
separate from God. We are not separate from one another."

So when I see an agenda attached to a word like that that was already sacred to
me, and there's people using a word that does, and I don't think it means this,
like Inigo Montoya: "You keep using that word. I do not think it means what you
think it means."

I'm just like, hold on, "Inconceivable!" I don't think that word means, you
keep using that word. But I'm not, because of your attachment to that word,
because it seems like you're using that word to over-identify with self.

Perennial wisdom tells me that over-identification, using words to over-
identify with self, is not the ultimate, is not God's ultimate plan.

MICHAEL: Perfect.

TRAV: I keep remembering you say, Michael, "What about humanity?" I love that
phrase. Anyway Michael, you got to put that on recording, that conversation
about you growing up and going to church. Tell us that story.

MICHAEL: Well, it is our problem, and it stems from what Travis was discussing,
which is this concept that at first there were a few human beings. There
weren't a lot of us. And so we band together and we survive and we come up with
cool stuff. And then we recognize, "Oh wait, there's another group of human
beings over there that I didn't know about."

And so we connect with them and we're like, "Hey, what are y'all working on?
Oh, that's cool. Look what we can do." And then now we're competing. Now we're
evolving.

[1:25:00]

Over time, we've reached a point to where we should be unified. We reached a
point of population where those individual groupings could have unified into a
major group. And that happened in nations and these types of things.

But then it stopped. We drew these lines on paper around land and said "this is
America, this is Mexico, this is that." And now we have this glorified
tribalism that we're practicing, which is America, or whatever country it is
that you espouse as your country.

And this has been taken to the extreme to where we say America first, but we
don't mean America first. We mean America only. We mean we're going to do
what's best for us and sorry if it hurts anybody else. It's worth it because we
benefit.

And so this idea of America first is only for America. Canada would be saying
Canada first and those African countries would be saying their country first.
But it can't be done without that constant question of "What about humanity?
What about the rest of the people?"

Because there is a karmic balancing that will happen. It's happening right now.
The power that America has wielded over the planet for the last, I don't know,
however many years, decades, is now being rebalanced.

And just like "third world countries" didn't like it when we were going around
the world and imposing our stuff on them, we're not going to like it when they
do it to us. And it will happen because no civilization lasts forever. No
society lasts forever. They all fall. That's what they tell us and that's what
the record of history shows us. Even the Roman Empire had its day and it's
over.

TRAV: It's because we live in a cycle. We spoke of "in the beginning." And it's
like this is always the beginning. We're always on step one.

DAN: That's a good point. We are powerless over whatever it is that happens. We
can't stop the cycle any more than we can stop the earth from revolving around
the sun or rotating on its axis.

MICHAEL: That's right. And it all comes from this construct of language. What
does America mean? Where did that word come from? Why did they pick that word?

TRAV: That's a good why. That's a good why question.

MICHAEL: And if you ask a teacher, they'll say, "Oh, they named it after
Amerigo Vespucci or some guy." That's not true. It's absolutely not true.

[1:30:00]

And so this is just the way that they use the technology of the written word
and they flip it on us so that we just have no clue what's going on. And more
importantly, we don't know what's going on. And then we further the confusion
by acting like we know what's going on because we have a piece of paper that
says, "I know what I'm talking about."

TRAV: Yeah. That's a good way of describing the world that I was born in.
Because once you ask enough questions, whether, I mean, this happened for me in
centralized medicine, you know, in physical therapy.

I had so many wonderful teachers. B. Garcia, Shirley Seaton, Kimberly Starling,
David Ireland Hensley, Trevor Talbert. I could just name teachers that I had in
physical therapy, I could just keep doing it. And then all the people that I
worked with.

But then when you start seeing how centralized medicine is corrupted. It's just
a corrupted program. And one way you can describe that is in terms of insurance
companies. When you start to understand how insurance companies are dictating
what treatments we can and can't have, you realize, "Oh wow."

And then there's a more nuanced way that it's corrupted for me. Like, yes, I am
trying to answer part of my calling as a healer. And also as a healer, I'm not
really equipped to come to this one location in this institution and heal like
this day in and day out.

Do I love my clients? Yes. Do I love my colleagues? Yes. Do I love the fact
that I get to help people and be close to people and I could put my hand on
this guy's shoulder today for joint reinforcement? But it's something more than
that. What I'm really doing is, I'm here for a reason. I'm doing this one-on-
one hands-on work.

And then I have to be legitimized by an institution. I can't practice that now
that I'm not in an institution.

[1:35:00]

So part of what's happening in my life is I'm actualizing as a teacher who has
no qualifications, who's not operating under an institution, although I have
training from many institutions.

So it does make sense. I'm not saying "F you" to all the teachers. No, I love
all the teachers. And so you come to this place where you realize that even
when you're working with people who are working on relatively high levels in
their field, they've had to kind of blind themselves to the limitations of
their own institution.

Even when you're working with people who are working really well, they come to
this place where it's like, "Well, we don't really know why we do that. It just
is. And that's just kind of how it works."

Like for instance, if you're working in a nursing home in physical therapy, you
might come to understand that the physical therapy, they call it the cash cow
of that nursing home because they're milking every Social Security dollar that
they can out of every eligible member.

"Why does Miss So-and-so need 96 minutes of physical therapy today?"
"Because she's in, I don't think that she really, well, just, because she does.
Because it says right here."

And you have to, because people can't be honest, because the system that we're
working in is actually asking us, requiring us to compromise our integrity. And
so you learn how to work within those systems. You learn how to document
correctly so that you can be a human. "What about humanity?"

Now I have to dot the T's and cross the I's for the system. And then you have
to learn, okay, that's one world, because insurance says I have to do it this
way. So I'm going to document it according to how they say. When I really know
that even though she needs 96 minutes, as a human, I'm going to give every bit
of that 96 minutes to this other human.

But also I know that if I document it in the real-time way, that would not be
billable by insurance.

[1:40:00]

And so in order to seek first the kingdom of heaven, for me, is about, I'm
going to have to step away from those systems and those institutions and serve
the kingdom first and trust that everything, because now I have to step away
from my paid wage earner kind of mentality. And that's a big deal.

And I think the son of God, Christ, Yeshua, Jesus, he'll give you instructions
like "sell your possessions, give to the poor" that will blow your mind. Like
the matrix will start turning into the ones and the zeros around you. You'll
start to see that.

So it's this lifetime practice of kind of following in the way and then seeing
where that way leads. Receiving all the information and then asking, learning.

I did not understand that asking questions, how threatening that was to the
teachers that I was around. I had to come into a compassion for these people
because I realized I'm asking these questions, and this happened for me very
clearly when I was working in centralized medicine. Oh, I didn't mean to be
threatening. I'm just naturally asking the questions that are getting to the
bottom of the "why's" that we can't talk about.

MICHAEL: You know, I think in pictures, man. And while you were saying that, I
couldn't help but imagine a stockyard, a cattle stockyard.

And when I say that language is a construct, this is what I'm talking about. We
say, "I want to be a healer." And they say, "Okay, if you want to be a healer,
you have to go through this narrow corridor. There's a narrow corridor that you
as this aspiring healer have to go through."

And like in a stockyard, it's very scientific. They don't just throw some walls
out there and some fences. It's very strategic because they understand the
psychology of cows.

So all they have to do is incentivize the first cow. The first cow that moves
and starts doing what they want them to do, the other cows will follow because
they trust that cow. They trust that that first cow to do its own initial
survival analyzation and then decide if this is a safe thing to do or not. And
so that first cow makes a move and then the rest follow.

[1:45:00]

There are very few cows that break out of that norm, that decide that they're
going to just go out of the corridor or go into a different corridor or just
completely break that system. And when they're caught, they're not dealt with
gracefully. They're just put out.

And so our reality is an infinite reality. They have taught us that it is not,
that there are only certain ways to do things. And getting from point A to
point B, if you get 10 people and say, "How do you go from here to there?"
they're going to give you 10 different answers.

What they're trying to make us believe is that there's only one right way to do
things and it's their way.

TRAV: And I guess now I have to qualify "they."

MICHAEL: Yes. You defined "they" earlier as liberals and conservatives.

And really, when I say "they," I use the word "zed" to describe this concept.
And for me it's sort of an arrogance, a narcissism. It's a method of being
which says "I know and you don't."

DAN: It's also a method of control.

MICHAEL: It is the foundation for that because as soon as they make us believe
that they know and we don't, now we are subservient. Now we are dependent
because we believe we don't know, that if we want an answer to something, we
have to go to them. We have to go to zed. Whether it's the doctor, the teacher,
the priest, the financial advisor, the tax man, it doesn't matter.

The message is that you don't know. There's no way for you to know. There is no
spirituality. There is no connection to the Akashic records. That's all mumbo
jumbo. And the only truth to be known is what's in these books, in these
recorded words. And you are required to accept these recorded words as if they
are unchanged.

Like "in the beginning was the word" because we read it.

[1:50:00]

And we talked the other day about asking this question of "Why do you believe
the Bible is the word of God?" Nine times out of ten, the answer will be
"because the book says so." This circular reasoning.

And they really, they base not only their belief in the Bible on this, but
their entire life, their entire morality, their entire mode of being is based
on something that they believe is true that they cannot ever confirm.

TRAV: So "they" being like a non-player character, someone who is just fully in
acceptance of the programming they've received in the system.

Dan, you have, how many years did you say? You're like an educational
diagnostician for 25 years in the public schools. You've been assessing
intelligence. Is that a correct way to say that?

DAN: Right. For 25 years with formal measures as they're accepted in the United
States, in English-speaking countries, along with nonverbal assessment of
intelligence too. There were assessment tools that could be utilized for
students and individuals who were nonverbal. There were ways to assess
intelligence.

MICHAEL: And so that's what we're really getting to now, guys: What is
authenticity?

When I say "they," I would say that they are not authentic. And intelligence is
not something, for example, if I go to a class and I learn something new, that
instructor did not impart any intelligence to me.

What that instructor did was allow me to be in a space where I could discover
that intelligence for myself. And I'm saying this because as instructors, this
is going to be our true challenge: cultivating the environment, not only in AIU
as a digital and possibly even physical space, but within the individual, to
create the environment where they feel safe to explore these ideas and come up
with the authentic understanding that exists already inside them.

Intelligence exists. It's not something that we create. It's not something that
we do or anything like that. Intelligence exists. We exist because intelligence
exists.

[1:55:00]

DAN: Right. Each cell has an infinite intelligence. Each cell in our body is a
universe unto itself. Every process that the human body does, the cell does. So
it is a microcosm.

And then we can take it down to the atom and we can even take it up out into
anything we can find in the universe. And we can take that out even socially
and apply it to all of the people around us in our immediate communities and
whatever geographical, geopolitical boundaries.

MICHAEL: That's right. And so intelligence isn't to be passed around.
Intelligence is to be discovered by the individual.

And through that process, I'm sure you guys are familiar with the hundredth
monkey experiment from back in the day.

TRAV: Go ahead and re-enlighten me on that.

DAN: Yeah. Like we'd never heard it.

MICHAEL: Yeah. And forgive me because I'm not all too well versed in this. I
just understand the idea behind it. But there were a few scientists, they were
French scientists back in the day, and they were studying a certain species, a
certain group of primates.

And they had sort of observed them for a while and sort of understood the way
they did things. And one day, one of the primate mothers took a tuber, some
kind of potato-like thing, and instead of just feeding her children that day
with it, just giving it to them, she took it down to the river and began to
wash it off. I guess it was dirty. But for whatever reason, this primate
decided to wash off this tuber and then feed her children.

Well, the other mothers saw this and then began to practice this same new
behavior.

[2:00:00]

At the same time, there was another group of scientists studying across the
world somewhere, studying a separate set of primates. And in this same time
frame, this completely separate uninformed group of primates began to wash
their tubers in water just like the other group was doing initially as new
behavior.

And so there is a thread of information that runs between species and between
living things. We are being communicated to by the plants, by the water and the
air and everything around us. There is a communication grid that is pure
information.

And this is where we exist in. We exist in this field of data and this field of
information. Everything that we see is just an expression of that data. And we
can call it God. We can call it universal principles. It's just another label
that we can apply to this thing.

And so what we're really talking about when we talk about intelligence is
everything that is being covered up by what we're experiencing in this current
reality. The intelligence is underneath all of this.

And when we talk about unlearning things, this is what we're talking about.
We're talking about stripping away the layers of arbitrary meanings that
they've put onto us regarding the true reality, the true nature of our
existence on this planet.

We're not ON this planet, man. We're part of the ecosystem. No different than
the trees that grow out of the ground. We are part of this thing that we call
nature.

DAN: Dan, before you ask the question, I just want to chime in that there's a
great hope here that because the three of us are forming this Authentic
Intelligence University, that perhaps somewhere across the globe in some other
place, there are three other people that are meeting like us today to openly
exchange ideas, to agree to disagree, and to question and to discuss what is
authentic intelligence and how are we going to all connect.

So go ahead with your question. There's a great hope there, Michael, with what
you just shared.

TRAV: Absolutely. I love it, Dan. I think in a sense we're the primates who get
to, we pray that, right? This, our coming together, we acknowledge that we are
not, this is bigger than us. We are just one cell. As above, so below, in the
microcosm and the macrocosm.

[2:05:00]

I just want to ask you, Dan, to comment. You've been meditating on what is
intelligence for many years and you've been with these tests in an institution,
just like I've worked in centralized medicine. You've been working with kids
and assessing intelligence.

And so I'm just kind of interested in what you might, how you might comment on
institutionalized intelligences and tests and then what you know about
authentic intelligence.

DAN: Well, that's a very curious thing because my measures are highly biased
because they're highly English language biased. And it has been proven in
courts with debates that it's extremely difficult to come up with a measure
that is culture-free, culture-fair.

There are assessments that are done that will not show the intelligence, or
they don't accurately show the intelligence of students that don't come from
the same culture. There's a bias that's in there that has to be really
acknowledged or noted.

But I tell you what, in my 25 years I've especially been astounded by children
in the state of New Mexico. We did assessments to qualify students for gifted
programs and we used only students that were two standard deviations above the
mean. They were significantly above average intelligence.

And it was phenomenal to watch some of these students do what they did on some
of the assessments that I provided. There were certain sections of assessments
that are timed and I can remember assessing individuals and going, "Wait a
minute, did I set my timer correctly?" I've been doing it so long that I
actually had a stopwatch like used in track field, and I go, "Wait a minute,
did I read that right?"

Just phenomenal to watch these individuals or to see the memory abilities of
individuals. The ability to just recall things, just strings and strings of
information that you go, "Wow, how did that kid, I think you probably both have
seen these cases, very rare, but like a child who could tell you all the
numbers out to just countless numbers of digits for an extrapolation of the
irrational number pi." They go "3.14" and they just rattle them off out into
the hundreds.

[2:10:00]

It was enough to cause a jaw to drop to go, "How did they memorize that? How
did they know that? How could they generate that?"

And so intelligence is an extremely important thing to understand in dealing
with the human species. And then on the other end, you see individuals that are
extremely limited for whatever cause, whatever ideology, whether it might be
Down syndrome or it might be fetal alcohol syndrome or drug-effect syndrome or
just some kind of organic aberration.

And then the limitations of these individuals. And so there's a certain hard-
wiring that happened within individuals and it didn't make them less of a human
being. I'm a person to believe in compassion and taking everyone into the
lifeboat. No life is less important than another life.

I think that life is just an extremely sacred unique phenomenon and as far as
I know we can't create life. So it's very sacred. All lives matter regardless
of intellectual ability. All lives matter.

But I've seen the spectrum, from extremely, extremely intelligent to profoundly
limited, in some cases incapacitated to even taking care of bodily functions.

I don't know if I answered your question, Travis.

TRAV: I think you are. I think kind of the second part of the question, if you
could kind of move into that a little further. Yes, all lives matter. And so
you were talking about what it's like to assess in an institution with
institutional tests.

And as far as, I mean, do you have anything to add concerning, like so in that
study, because you've done this deep meditation on intelligence, I think that's
the reason I'm kind of pushing on this, because I think it qualifies you.
You've been doing a deep lifetime meditation on intelligence.

DAN: And I won't shine you on if I don't know something, Travis. I'll say, "You
know, I really need to look at that further."

TRAV: So I think, just maybe it's just a continuing question: After that deep
lifetime meditation, what is intelligence?

[2:15:00]

DAN: And if the answer comes now or if it comes later, I think it's the ability
to navigate the environment successfully.

TRAV: Kind of like back to what you've already said, it's like to solve, in
fact you already did say that, solving novel problems.

DAN: And then there's an importance of having enough intelligence to follow
things that are provided to you. There is a certain amount of intelligence to
be able to learn from your father how to knap a flint to make a spearhead, as
opposed to maybe someone in the organization or the tribe that was unable to do
that task, and they might have to be assigned a different task.

TRAV: There are things, I took a gifted test when I was going into the eighth
grade because someone sensed that I had something about me that was
intelligent. But I remember that the intelligence test that I took made me feel
really stupid. I knew coming out of that as a 14-year-old kid, I was like, "Oh,
I ain't gifted for sure," because that made me feel real dumb.

But then I think part of my life process is coming to, part of what I could
call self-respect, it's like coming to understand where I am gifted.

And then in these last years really I've had, I might say an illness, or just I
kind of, I'm kind of fragile in mind and body in some ways that it causes me to
not be able to engage right now in a paid wage system. I can't really promise
anyone that I can behave in a reliable manner in their paid wage system.

And so I'm really having to focus on what I, every day now I do what I can do
and what I feel that I'm gifted at. Writing. I'm gifted here. Like I love
playing music. I understand how stringed instruments work.

When I started to teach stringed instruments, when I started to teach guitar, I
realized, "Oh, there are things that I have to, I was having to teach people
that no one ever taught me." I just kind of, it just made sense naturally. I
managed those things.

[2:20:00]

So I think part of my intelligence, I call it, the way I've talked about it in
my video creation, is "I see the light in you," or maybe namaste, "the divine
in me acknowledges the divine in you."

Being able to see that, in whatever form that giftedness shows up. Being able
to see that, being able to acknowledge that. If there's anything evangelistic
about me, it's not going out there and trying to get people to say a certain
string of words and then chalking one up for me, saying, "Hey, got another
convert."

Really my job as an evangelist, if I, and I don't really call myself that, but
I do have that kind of evangelism in me where I love to go out and meet people
and I want to bring people into a tribe in a sense, or just bring people in,
even if it's just this tribe for this moment, if it's just for five minutes
this little tribe that we've got.

But it's about seeing the depth, seeing the intelligence in you, and then
saying, "God, that's beautiful." And what I find is that if I can do that with
somebody, then it changes us. It changes the course of our conversation.

If I can say "I see this in you" and then it's like, not telling somebody how
and what, but saying "Am I seeing this right?" You taught me some of this,
"correct me if I'm wrong, but I think I'm seeing this."

Correct me if I'm wrong, even just repeating back to somebody something that
they just said to me. And trying to not make it about me so much, but I've
always got to make it about me. Everything I hear is about me.

But if I can kind of turn that a little bit and say, "Yes, this is about me,
but correct," like "I think what I'm hearing you say is really important
because it's important to me. And my god, you seem so intelligent."

Which is I love listening to friends. Like I love listening to both of you. To
me, this is like, there's a mind that's bigger than mine. I'm free from self as
I'm really curious about what you guys are saying. So excited just to sit here.
It's almost like my mind's working except where I'm not bound to the same kind
of twists and turns that my mind's always doing. I'm free from the bondage of
the small self in this moment.

[2:25:00]

So that, and that's asking the question. I love that.

DAN: Well, and see, knowing both of you, I would never have to give you guys an
intelligence test to tell you that you were gifted in the sense of all of my
institutional training, because both of you are.

And as a matter of fact, I've always questioned my ability to even hang with
you guys. And it didn't even dawn on me until this morning when we were talking
about what are we going to talk about? And so we've talked about some things
about authentic and now we've shifted on to a thing about intelligence.

And with that being said, I am not the guru and end-all be-all say-all of what
intelligence is. And I would want to know what both you and Michael view as
intelligence because this is going to be crucial in our university, especially
when we're talking about how we're going to contrast ourselves with artificial
intelligence.

We need to, as human beings, start, I mean, we're at a really crucial place,
fellas. This is a little bit more profound than I ever realized it was going to
be.

And so I say that with no lighthearted comedy in my speech to you when I say:
This is probably the most important thing I'll ever do in my life right here.
Authentic Intelligence University.

TRAV: It's time to start washing our tubers.

DAN: Yep.

MICHAEL: Right. Yeah. And I said earlier, we wouldn't exist without
intelligence, right? So intelligence is life, man.

And what I hear Dan saying is that intelligence is about navigating the
environment, which is survival. This inherent instinctual imperative that we
have to not only survive but to procreate, is intelligence.

The things that we do that we accept as reality that aren't reality, that's the
anti-intel. That's the lie. That's the flipping technology that they put on us.

And so what we're really talking about is this differentiation between
intelligence and knowledge.

[2:30:00]

Intelligence is about evolution. Knowledge is about fitting into a system. You
could say that intelligence is about fitting into a system as well because we
have a universal evolutionary or at least natural law system that exists that
is solid, that does have unbreakable laws and real cause and effect that we can
see and experiment with.

But knowledge is always changing. There is no such thing as "I know this." The
only way you can know something is when life hits you with it and then you have
to adapt to it. Then you know it, then you can really understand it.

That's kind of what I was saying earlier with the swimmer versus the educated
physicist. The physicist can describe water very well, but the swimmer actually
knows it. It has, the swimmer has the intelligence. The physicist has the
knowledge. Am I saying that right?

TRAV: Makes sense to me. Except that I'm so into physics too that, I don't, as
like "oh, that's not," I mean, I don't know, because I'm so into physics and
also super into fluid dynamics too. So like, I don't, I really don't want to
exclude the physicists at all.

MICHAEL: Oh yeah. But if we apply knowledge without intelligence, we die. And
that's where we are now. Everybody's proud of their knowledge, but they're not
applying any intelligence.

And intelligence is about survival. It's about evolution. It's about
adaptation. Intelligence is life. The cell in my body doesn't need to go to
university. It knows, it is this intelligence.

And so this is the same for us. We are this intelligence but we've been told
that that intelligence is not valuable, that the only thing that's valuable is
the knowledge. And you don't need a degree to express intelligence.

But in our current situation you pretty much need a degree to express
knowledge. And so this is the herding process that they're doing with us.

Why I envision it as a stockyard is because anything that you want to do,
anything that you want to explore, they'll give you the knowledge to do that.
And that knowledge set is the corridor. It is the walls of that knowledge and
the peer-review process and this whole concept are the walls that we walk
through so that we end up where they want us to go.

[2:35:00]

TRAV: I love it. I love it.

DAN: Language is our construct. We say "intelligence," we don't know what we're
talking about. I agree. These are all good questions to ask.

It's kind of like the Socratic method. It's like Socrates, the danger he was to
Athens was his questioning. And that's going to be the very tool, the very
instruments we need. We need to question everything. Don't just accept things
as they are. Question.

What is intelligence? What is being authentic? What makes us different from
artificial intelligence? What is the university? Where is the university?

TRAV: Really wonderfully said.

MICHAEL: And the swimmer, when the swimmer jumps into the water, it's because
he has a question. It's the question that drives us. We're not here to give
answers.

DAN: I don't think so either. I chimed right in with you.

TRAV: I got no answers. I chimed right in with you, Michael and Travis. We're
not here to indoctrinate people to join our church or to think like we think. I
believe that all three of us have this intent to wish to cause people to wake
up.

And I'm very careful to use words and phrases here. Maybe that's not even the
right word. We want people to acquire a healthy skepticism of questioning
everything that's presented to them. Do not just believe anything that's being
presented to you, including my words out of my mouth on this university level.

MICHAEL: That's right. We are not here to lead people to the answers. We're
here to lead people to the question.

TRAV: I love it. It's very important. Yes, the questions. There's so much more
we can say on that very subject.

[2:40:00]

I'm going to make a statement about intelligence and it goes something like
this: Intelligence is passed down.

There's a guy named Ricky in Wellington, Kansas who taught me to play cross
harp. He just taught me how to bend. And so he passed this down. Without Ricky,
without this one-on-one, I just met, I mean, I only hung out with him a couple
of times in my whole life, but he had a great respect for what was already
going on in me musically, and then he was like, "Hey man, you ever cross harp?"
And I was like, "Oh man."

And it was that one encounter with Ricky that opened up that, that allows me to
just play a little bit. And I'm not a harp player really, but I can play enough
to make people smile and to enjoy it myself.

And as a teacher, that's what I'm trying to do with anybody who has an
instrument, is just open a door in a moment, is just share some, if I can help
you to just have an experience with your instrument. I think that I've done my
job.

And so along those lines, one of our principles is "together," is that more
will be revealed. And perhaps more can be revealed to us through you, because
as we expand, as the three of us, if we're to bring in a fourth member or a
fifth member in a moment or whatever, we don't know how that dynamic goes.

One thing I love about 12-step meetings is there's an intelligence, a new
intelligence. I learn something. I don't even have to agree with what everyone
shares. It's almost like, you talk about intelligence, I can listen.

If I give someone my attention, especially if I don't agree with them,
especially if I don't like them, especially if they're providing some kind of
grating experience, if I can hold that space and take some breaths in and have
this acceptance experience, I will, and trust that I'm hearing something from
God, from a higher power, that is beyond my conscious capacity to understand.

[2:45:00]

That for me is one way I can use to describe intelligence. I have an endocrine
system in my body. I've been told, and that it's the regulatory mechanism for
all my hormones. I don't know about it really. I haven't seen it. But I kind of
trust, I do kind of still have some trust for people who have looked inside
bodies. And I'm not going to do that. There's a lot of stuff that I'm not going
to do.

I still trust a lot of things that I've been told and that I use them to
describe things. I say, "Well, this seems, until somebody tells me different,
I'll still talk about evolution, anthropology." These ideas that were given to
me as part of my "in the beginning" stories.

But there is, you talk about intelligence, like there's a, I don't really know
how to operate my endocrine system, assuming that it's there. There's no, like,
I don't have buttons. I don't even have to think about it. Maybe it doesn't
know how to operate itself exactly right or whatever. But I mean, who's to know
about that?

Concerning intelligence, brothers, many years ago, I had this sense that I had
something to share, that I had something to offer. And I began over many years,
I began to kind of, and I was told on a number of occasions that what I have to
offer is not quite welcome here. That the way that I ask questions, the way I
show up musically, is not, even though I'm studied, even though I know, I
understand scales, but that's not quite, in fact, "you're threatening us."

I began to understand after a while that the way that I'm showing up is
threatening to some people. That my intelligence maybe isn't quite welcome
here.

I have a great respect for what we're calling intelligence. And I think that, I
love the human story. I love the way, I like to imagine us just kind of all
waking up together.

[2:50:00]

I have so many teachers and you guys are my teachers. And what's happening here
today, as we're like washing our tubers, it's, I must believe that this is
happening everywhere right now.

We have a message. And for myself, the way I describe that, whatever it is that
I share with people, it's got to be in love. I agree.

And that doesn't mean that I'm always a nice guy either. Like I'm generous, I'm
compassionate, I'm nurturing, I'm kind. That doesn't mean I have to be nice.
Because sometimes I have to be confrontational. And sometimes there's an
intelligence in the boundaries that I maintain.

And unless I'm capable of giving freely to each of you in this conversation
without depending on you to validate me in a moment, then I can't really be
with you.

And I think something's happened in each of us through the course of what we
might call recovery, seeing that we met in this 12-step program, which is a
program to bring us out of some kind of delusion or illusion or some kind of
deception that we're playing. It's to help us get honest with ourselves.

I just really believe in what we're doing. This is a form of intelligence, this
thing that we're doing right now. And I just want to honor you guys and I want
to honor God and Ricky right now.

For me, how to, in that one night teaching, he got me a gig that night. He was
like, "Man, you really play. You want to play down at the Commodore?" And so in
Wellington, Kansas, we went into the Commodore bar right there on Main Street
and he was like, "Hey, let this guy play." And man, I played and we played
together.

And so that's how I learn. How I learn is through these interactions, is being
with you guys, talking with you. I'm an emotional learner. I learn through
connection, Michael.

[2:55:00]

MICHAEL: Yeah. It is the beginning of greater understanding. And we sort of
have this idea that intelligence is something to be absorbed or even
discovered. But what I see intelligence as is an expression.

When I plant a seed and I see that seed sprout and I see that sprout become a
plant and then I see that plant drop a seed, this is the expression of infinite
intelligence. All powerful, never-ending, completely perfect symmetry,
expression of divine intelligence.

It's not something that the plant reads about. It's not something that the
plant learns from its mom. It's not something that the plant absorbs. It's
something that is expressed in the plant itself, in the being of the plant. The
plant's desire to live is this intelligence.

And so that's what we're tapping back into. We're tapping back into the
expression of intelligence. And even if we want to call that knowledge, that's
fine. But what we're getting away from is the concept that we are to receive
this knowledge from outside sources. That we are to be somehow enhanced and
become better people because we received this from some outside source.

That is not the truth and it's not the reality. The reality is that all of this
intelligence would be expressing if it weren't for our fears, which were
imposed on us.

Yes, brother. Yes.

And so intelligence is already existing. When a new student joins us or when I
join this meeting or anything like that, the respect, the ability to see that
person for what they really are, is founded on this understanding: that when I
see you, I am looking at divine intelligence in action, in reality, in
expression from nature itself.

Now, if you want to change my mind with all your ideas, then we'll go that
route. But when I see you, I have to be able to see that in you first.

[3:00:00]

TRAV: I'm learning to photosynthesize. I'm growing some chloroplasts.

MICHAEL: Yeah. Yeah.

TRAV: I'm trying, I'm going to change, I'm going to turn some light into
hydrates, dude.

MICHAEL: Yes. Yes.

TRAV: Into expendable energy. I mean, like, I know how to photosynthesize.
That's, I sat with some trees in these couple years and I've just really like
been like, "Damn, that's smart."

MICHAEL: And we call it chlorophyll in plants and we call it melanin in human
beings. It's the same process. It is only this intelligence that is expressing
itself through nature, which is adaptation. This what do they call it, the
savage jungle of nature.

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
CLOSING
═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

TRAV: All right, my friends. This has been an amazing maiden voyage. Is there
anything else we need to cover before we say goodbye today?

MICHAEL: I would just say, man, just to put a cap on this idea of where are we
getting our information from: When it comes to decentralizing this neural
network of humanity, what we're really looking for is a system. And the system
that we want to utilize is different from what we're utilizing now in the sense
that right now we have systems that we, right or wrong, believe we can trust.

TRAV: Okay. So we're not anti-system then. We're just, but we are creating a
new, the next iteration of system, which will possibly even one day be
institutionalized and there'll need to be another system created.

And exploring the idea of, you said "system," so I'm exploring that word. And
the difference between a centralized system and a decentralized system.

MICHAEL: The concept of trust. Because we live in a centralized system, we are
forced to trust certain entities, whether they be corporations, people,
institutions, ideas even, doesn't matter.

In a decentralized system where all information is freely shared and available,
there is a trustless environment where I don't have to trust you. I don't have
to trust the person that built the system. I trust the system because the
system can't be changed. It can't be arbitrarily altered to benefit one or a
few people.

And so that's the real concept of decentralization. It is what nature operates
as. I as an individual have access to all information in this network of
reality. Whether or not I choose to deploy that information is up to me. Or
which pieces of information I choose to publish and to accept and to make part
of my own personal system, that's up to me.

But if we could all agree on something that we can trust, which is intelligence
itself, then we can develop a system that is truly trustless.

TRAV: I have these lyrics to this song in my head. They say "most shark attacks
happen in about three feet of water." That's not what I told my daughter when
she asked about the questions, when she asked.

This song came to me in San Diego. It's about moving out beyond the tidal pool.
And I have this duty, this responsibility to move out.

And I'm so grateful, you're talking about this decentralized, because that's
kind of where we started, right? This idea of this decentralized forum. And
this is kind of where humanity is, that there is this decentralized technology
coming into existence. And that's where we've got to go.

And there are always going to be dangers as we try to employ new technology.
There are risks. There are risks in getting together.

In the line of work that I've been doing for quite some time, kind of as I've
been letting, "This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine," as I've been
letting my light shine, I've had some people question me like, "Are you trying
to be some kind of know-it-all guru?"

And my answer to that is no. Together, we're discovering our common work.
Together, we're discovering our common stories. Together, we're discovering our
common love.

And so we're not saying we have the corner on intelligence. We're not saying
"this is it, buy this from us." In fact, we're saying we're freely sharing with
you what has been freely given to us.

MICHAEL: Right. And so somehow that's the new capital, like you've been saying
recently. The authenticity that makes us authentic.

That's right. And it is what furthers things. It is evolution. When we as a
humanity just sort of stop coming up with new ideas, evolution stops. And
that's where we are.

They like it this way because we are predictable in this state. We're
predictable in this environment of experts surrounding us and keeping us from
pushing the boundaries of these industries.

It's why, when blockchain and these types of technologies come out, it
completely revolutionizes the world. And it's not like people are coming up
with new ideas. These ideas exist in nature. Like I said, the world is
decentralized. It's only our system that is centralized.

So, yes, we're discovering that, this is like, we're not separate. We're not
separate like we've made ourselves out to be. We've created centralized systems
and we've proven over time that anytime we centralize a system, it's a pyramid
scheme. It's a Ponzi scheme. Our systems are what's really destroying us now.

And biblically speaking, it's when the people said, um, when God was like,
"Hey, you don't need a king. Trust me." And we're saying, "Oh, we need a king.
We need a king." So we get Saul.

Also where the heart of David comes in. But so we're managing. We're working.
It's coming to this place where it is about transcending those kingships and
becoming "I am that great I am, and so are you." And we are not separate from
God. We are that one.

And this is where the "We the People" is really, the "We the People" ideology,
we created, we come to trust centralized systems, federal systems. And some of
us know the violence, it is a true violence, even if you're not shedding blood.
There's a crushing nature of the centralized systems and they cannot care for
us. These centralized systems cannot be our daddy. They cannot care for us. And
we have to learn to care for one another.

And that's why Authentic Intelligence University. We're creating a system here,
a decentralized system, a system where we're coming and today this is the
system. And part of it is like the system being able to work with novelty,
like, well, what if four or five other people are here? How does that system
work then?

But we've also seen in those 12-step rooms that even people who have grave
emotional and mental disorders can come together around a principled system and
have creative, healing, helpful, recovering conversations.

And that's kind of where we all started together. So Dan, I just want to
acknowledge you in the midst of that, because like both Michael and I just
benefited so greatly from your dedication to those principles. Not your blind
dedication to a pre-established system, but you, in the conservative realm, you
said "these principles saved my life."

Right now, I'm freely sharing with you the value of these principles because
you noticed in both of us our authentic intelligence. And I think that's what
you've been blessing in both Michael and I, is like, hey, as that
diagnostician that's outside the system, you're assessing intelligence and
you're saying, "Hey, I see the light in you, brothers."

And I know that me and Michael have both benefited greatly from your capacity.
I mean, you're bringing us together today. Without you, we're not here.

DAN: Well, and then what's so beautiful about this is how intergenerational
this whole process is, because it was Michael's grandfather who held form and
was there to pass down these principles.

And kind of to go back to what Michael's already shared with us, and if you
don't mind ending on a note like this, Travis and Michael, we were talking, and
I'll let Michael take over here, but we were talking about passing this on to
our children.

MICHAEL: Yeah. We have to view intelligence as expression and we have to view
the expression as the authenticity. When I meet, what I say is that real
recognizes real.

I consider myself a real person and when I come around real people, I recognize
them immediately. Real also recognizes fake. So when I come around people who
aren't being authentic, I can recognize that immediately.

But fake can't recognize either. A fake person doesn't know if the other person
is being authentic or not. And so they're operating in a world that I don't
want to exist in. I want to operate in a world that is about the expression of
the creator.

And when I see people being inauthentic, it's not because they're passive or
weak. It's because they are expressive. The person in the meeting that's
laughing and nobody knows why, it's because they are expressing intelligence.
They are authentically intelligent in that moment and they don't need anything
to validate what they're experiencing to know that it's true. They're just in
that intelligence.

And so what I really want to say is that what we've done is we've imparted
value to knowledge and we've said that knowledge is your, your accumulation of
knowledge determines your wealth, your value.

And what we have is a bunch of people who are full of knowledge and expressing
no intelligence. So we have, like I mentioned the other day, we have industries
where just to make paper, we tear down whole forests. Which is the great
application of knowledge of how to make paper, but it expresses no
intelligence.

Considering like the seventh generation, the plant that is growing with
authentic intelligence and expressing itself naturally doesn't have to consider
the seventh generation. It's part of the data. It's part of the intelligence
that it is expressing. It would never do anything that would harm the seventh
generation or even impede it.

So authenticity is the expression of intelligence.

DAN: Wow.

TRAV: Wow.

DAN: Would you agree with that? It sounds good to me.

MICHAEL: Authenticity is the expression of intelligence.

[Travis's connection drops]

DAN: Did we lose Travis? Oh, he left. Yes, something happened.

MICHAEL: All right, bud. Hey, great to see you, man. You look great.

DAN: You too, Dan. We'll talk again, man.

MICHAEL: All right, we will, man. I'm excited.

DAN: All right, man. Bye.

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

                    Authenticity is the expression of intelligence.

                    Together, we're discovering our common work,
                    our common stories, and our common love.

                    AIU.

═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
