Enough
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvB8BUBYCS8

We are the one.
Authentic Intelligence University.
The truth is in the building.

Despite all my efforts to be strong, I discover in myself more weakness. All
my efforts to listen and learn from you result in my inability to please you.
I cannot please people. I am not good enough even by any terms which I can
establish for myself and much less can I live up to moral standards established
by others. All this especially now as I have seen so clearly the cultural
hypocrisy into which I was born.

But there is nothing to be gained in blaming anyone else. This I have learned
the hard way.

Do you know what it is like to fail? Do you know what it is like to give your
best only to find yourself lacking?

Have you ever exhausted yourself in your efforts to please people only to be
demonized and exiled by the very people you were trying to please?

Have you ever betrayed your own moral standards?

Have you ever broken the trust of the people who depended on you?

I am a fragile perfectionist, very capable of appreciating the depths that
discipline digs and also very susceptible to breakdown of mind and body. I
seem to have been born this way, wishing for a stronger chin, admiring those
brothers who seem so unstoppable in their commitments, and yet always
susceptible to my own weakness.

Despite all my greatest intentions, I have yet to make a promise that I didn't
break. So, I just stopped making them.

So great has been my hunger to perfect myself that I became a student of
perfection, surrendering myself to those who appear solid in their
achievements. I studied under these people. I married two of them. I forged
friendships with the strong ones, and I have done my ridiculous best to
imitate them.

I have aspired to greatness over and over again and each time I fall from the
height to which I climb.

So many times I have come to realize that the perfection that I seek is an
illusion and discipline, while absolutely necessary, when pursued to its extreme,
always ends in inevitable loss of control. Even as the control is at its
greatest.

With great wonder I watch those people who have great confidence in themselves.
Some people seem to have immense certainty in their own goodness. They yell and
scream and pound their fists. Outraged, they point their fingers at the
problems that seem so obvious to them.

Years ago, I was in attendance at a gathering of heartfelt, musically minded
people. While I was there, I was given the opportunity to write on a rock. A
profoundly simple moment.

It was a small rock. Just one word would fit on the rock. I chose the word
enough.

My dream was simply to be enough. I wanted to know myself as sufficient.

We shared a brief moment of meditation before we wrote on our rock. And in the
briefest of moments, I sensed what it might be like to know that I was enough.

Maybe it seems so simple to you. Maybe you were born into a body and a family
and a community in which you knew that you were enough. But for me, this was
my aspiration and it still is... to simply experience myself as enough.

My name is Trav...

...this particular manifestation of consciousness that I call "me", the message of
Christ is incredibly important to me.

I believe that righteousness is a free gift bestowed upon us by God.

There is a false message being propagated right now. And the false message
simply stated is like this: that somehow Christianity or following Christ is
about morality.

That's old covenant.

Morality is old covenant. I'm not saying that we are to be without morality,
but leading with morality in the message of Christ is missing the Christhood
all together.

And that's really, really important right now. Any political movement that
thinks it can appropriate the Christ message for its own purpose is misguided
and does not understand the message that Yeshua brought to us. The message of
not-two, not separate from God.

We are changed from the inside out.

We do not change the world by accusing and pointing our fingers. We do not
change the world by controlling the world. We change the world by forgiving
and loving the world.

You are enough. We are enough in the reception of this message of love,
compassion, unity, grace, acceptance.

May the Lord bless you and keep you. Cause his face to shine upon you, be
gracious to you and give you peace.
