Executive Order: Part 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x2UH7TFVgcw
July 27, 2025


On July 24th, Trump signed this executive order
where he declares that he will be shifting homeless individuals
into long-term institutional settings
for humane treatment
through the appropriate use of civil commitment
and this will restore public order.

I do not want to have anything to do
with the centralized government's plan for humane treatment.

I thank God for my little van.

And also sometimes as someone who doesn't have a house,
especially in times of extreme heat and cold,
I find myself accepting invitations into living spaces
that end up compromising me.

I was invited into a MAGA home
where I was told that Donald Trump was going to fix everything
and then give the power back to the people.

My first post about this executive order
elicited this response from this man
who says he's been part of the building of these mega prisons.
And I'm going to share that post with you now.

This is what Mark claims he's seen in his line of work.
He says:

"I'm terrified.
I know it sounds crazy and conspiracy theorist,
but for work, I've installed and worked on
the biggest prisons I've ever seen.
Huge.
I'm talking laundry machines and kitchens
that could easily house more than 250,000 people a day.
State-of-the-art facilities.
Kitchens with a dozen freezers.
Fast freezer, slow freezer, vegetable freezer, flash freezer,
big enough that you could drive a school bus in each one.
12 giant laundry machines
that make hotel laundry machines look like child's play.
On top of that,
we have been restoring old prisons
that have been shut down for several years.
One was only open for 8 years and is fairly new.
Private companies are buying them
with intentions of being contract prisons.
It has me nervous.
Probably shouldn't be, but I am."

Wow.

I trust God with all of this.

I bring something of value to my community every day,
wherever I find myself.

I number myself among the folks
who do not have a home to go to at night.
And I love these people as I love myself.

I have always known that I'm called
to be a part of a greater Christ assembly,
the church that is to bring love and help to the world.

So my mission hasn't changed.

I invite you to pray and ask once again
your kingdom come
your will be done
on earth as it is in heaven
and allow God to guide us
into the realization of this greater Christ community.

May the Lord bless you and keep you.
Cause his face to shine upon you.
