Executive Order: Part 1
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=55PcVY0vyTQ
July 27, 2025


The federal government has a plan
for my homeless brothers and sisters like myself.
They're going to shift us into long-term institutional settings
for humane treatment
through the appropriate use of civil commitment.
That's going to restore public order.
Apparently, that's the plan.

I do not believe that centralized government
has the power or the authority to truly care for people.
I believe that God cares for people through people.

I like many others
can no longer function in a paid wage system.
As you can see from my online work,
I continue in my devoted practice
to my music and my writing and my message.
Now, God and a few of you continue to tell me that I have great value.
And yet I sleep in my van on the city streets
where I may be subject to being snatched up.

Nothing has changed for me.
I saw this coming.
And now that I see an executive order in place,
I choose to speak.

This is my mission field.

Jesus told us that the poor would always be with us.
And now it's up to us and how we work with this.
And we've got to work with it in love.
That's our mission.

I'm one of the easy ones, y'all.
I mean, although I was raised in Oklahoma,
which is number 50 in education,
I have done my best to educate myself.

[Music]

I believe that I have a moral duty
to bring something of value to my community
and I work toward that end every day.

I work out my salvation with fear and trembling.

I am called to be part of a solution.

God has not given me a spirit of fear,
but a spirit of power, love, and a sound mind.

However, just because I have a sound mind,
that does not mean that I am capable of jumping through the hoops
required for me to secure myself a home right now,
which would exempt me from being snatched up by ICE.

If my community has yet to be able to help me
to be free from the tyranny of the presidential rule that we see now,
how are we to help the others?

I'm not asking you to save me.

What I'm calling for is what I've been calling for for a very long time.
And that is the assembly, the church,
to be deeper
and to bring the type of healing
that Christ's body needs to be able to bring into the world.

We have seen that federal government programs,
even when they're trying to help,
create dependency.

If you are a follower of Christ,
then you know that it is through the love that we show for one another
that we shine our light out into the world.

I am not here today to lay shame or guilt on you or condemn you.
I am merely asking you to pray about what your part in this is.
How can we become together
a greater and deeper expression of love and healing
for those hurting ones out there
who are in even more dire and stressful, painful, demoralized situations
than myself.

May the Lord bless you and keep you.
Cause his face to shine upon you.
