Experience, Strength, & Hope
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tCF-MMj36-k
August 3 2025


When I was 22 years old, the pastor of my little church handed me this exact book and he said, "This is a book full of promises that God has made to you."

The pastor instructed me to read first the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. My experience with Christianity up to that point was rather limited. I had spent just a little bit of time in church as a young person, but not very much.

Simply stated, at 22 years old, I had become so hurting, so lost and broken that I had opened up my heart to a deeper experience. And when I was told by Christians that I could be born again into a new life, I opened my heart to that born again experience.

I began to experience a newness, a freshness of life as I read the words in this book. It was very simple for me. I was lost and then I was found.

Because of this salvation that I was experiencing, I opened my heart to the people in that small church. They told me that the Bible was the infallible inerrant word of God. And because I was having this renewed experience in life, I just opened myself up to all of it.

When I read in the book of Matthew chapter 5, Jesus' words when he said to me, "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." I heard Jesus speaking directly to me. I understood myself as poor in spirit. I don't think that's exactly the words that were used in the promise, but I understood that somehow I was broken. I was hurting. I was having a wounded experience in life. And I was being told that my inheritance in this world was the kingdom of heaven.

And I was experiencing the kingdom of heaven.

I had come from a place of deep despair and fear and all of a sudden my life experience was free from fear and I connected that directly to the life of Jesus that I was reading about in the Bible.

In other words, I was having an inner experience of freedom. I was having a liberating experience inside.

This was before I had ever considered what the Bible was historically. I was having a spiritual awakening around this liberating figure of Jesus. This one who came and said, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled." And when I read those words, I began having a transformative experience in the world. It was experiential.

I didn't make a profession of Christ because I was afraid of going to hell. My life in my experience was already hell. And then reading the words of Jesus delivered me from that hell that I was already experiencing.

Therefore, when I read in the Bible that God had not given me a spirit of fear, but a spirit of love and power and a sound mind, I took that in as a promise that God was making me. And I began to reform my inner identity around those promises.

I am not fearful, but I am powerful. I am loving and I have a sound mind.

When I read in the Bible, be still and know that I am God. When I read in the Bible that God is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him, I took action in becoming still or non-action, you might say. I stilled my heart. I stilled my mind. And I made great inquiries about what it meant to know that God is God.

When I heard Jesus say, "Be perfect as I am perfect," I made efforts and took action to be perfect as Jesus was perfect. Not even really knowing or understanding what that meant. But I made these efforts to cleanse myself of all sin, to be perfect.

And those experiences burned me up.

When I heard Jesus say that unless you give everything to him, that you cannot be his disciple. I chose to give everything to purge myself of all worldly possessions and to give the proceeds of the sell of all of my possessions to the poor as Jesus instructed. And all of these actions had their work in me.

Today I do not really consider myself a Christian in a fundamentalist sense.

I do still say that Jesus is the son of God. He told me the truth when he said this world is going to feel like a cross. And here is what you should do when you feel crucified. You should forgive. Love your enemies. Pray for those who hurt you. Bless those who curse you. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And love your neighbor as you love yourself.

And these are impossible commandments as I understand.

Yet somehow I do seem to be filled with the spirit. And I experientially know what it means to love my enemy, to see those in my heart that I have once considered set against me. To see those in my heart who I've seen curse me and who I've experienced great inner turmoil around and then to no longer experience them as a tormentor in myself.

I am a follower of Christ in so far as I experience liberation through the Christ story.

I experience the sacred text of the Bible as a liberating poem.

I am a poem of God's mercy and grace. My life is an expression of liberation.

Jesus told me that when I bring my deepest love, when I bring my best, that I very well may be misunderstood and rejected and that I shouldn't be surprised when that happens. And so I find that the description of life that Jesus gave to me and how I should respond makes sense still in this world.

And I even read the Apostle Paul's every word in the context of a few things that he said. When he said we see dimly through a distorted glass. When he says we know just a little. When he said test everything and keep what is good and holy.

Jesus is my hero who responded appropriately when empire and church, when the church and the state crucified him.

My life today feels as if I am being crucified. It feels like none of you really care much about what I have to offer in this world. And that is terrifying and painful and I feel exiled and left out.

But I know what to do.

I love you. I love my audience even though you don't seem to care much about what I have to offer. I hang up here on this cross and I say, "Father, please forgive them because they don't know what they're doing."

It seems very clear to me that this world wants nothing that I have to offer now. And my only way to even deal with that besides just becoming angry and violent and hurtful is to forgive and to love.

And so now the gospel, the message of Jesus Christ is my alternative to violence. It's my alternative to despair.

I have no intent or desire to force my faith on anyone else. And yet somehow messaging about the hope that I have in Christ brings meaning to my life, especially as no one has any use for it, I suppose.

I gave my best. I tried my hardest and I came up immensely short.

And now all the people that I said I loved seem to be disappointed in me. And that is terribly disappointing. My life is a disappointment. I seem to be a disappointment to so many that I said I loved and who said they loved me.

I invite your prayers. If you see where I am misaligned, if you see where I am still missing it, my heart is open to God's correction in my life. And I long to be of some real use and help and purpose in this world.

All of my attempts to fix myself, all of my attempts to make myself a better person have failed.

And I do continue to make efforts to be helpful and useful in this world today. And so I pray that all of those efforts would be mixed with your love and your prayers for me. And that somehow you and I together could discover something deeper and more meaningful in this world together. You know that would align with that prayer of your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.

May you be filled with the deepest love, my friend. God bless you always.
