Forgiveness: The Keys to God's Kingdom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XHhbMGuK3WU
August 1, 2025


I am my own worst critic
and I have opened my heart and my mind
to a great deal of help from outside sources.
I have sat under many teachers
and now my heart has reclaimed some of the teachings
that had been blocked by resentment, unforgiveness
because of falling outs, you know,
that I'd had with some of my greatest teachers.

And this reclamation of teachings
from teachers I've been alienated from
is one reason that I am such a proponent
of praying for one's enemies.

When I hold a resentment toward an old teacher,
I am cut off from the teachings that I received from them.
The resentment, the unforgiveness, the grudge
has a way of blocking the heartfelt memory
of the teachings I received from them.

Both of my ex-wives, for instance,
hold places of honor in my heart,
and therefore, I remember the teachings they had for me.

I love them both with a love that is free from attachment.
I pray for them whenever they come into my memory.
I have made peace with their images
that appear in my heart space.

Although I do not maintain any relationship with either of them,
they are still my teachers.
Both of these women who prove themselves to be my enemies
really are still my teachers
and in my heart they walk with me
and I am grateful for them
and I draw on their wisdom practically in my daily life.

And this is one reason that I speak with authority
about Christ and the forgiveness he shared with the world.

God has done an impossible miracle in my life.
Many impossible miracles in my life.
And those miracles did not require the approval
or the participation of those women.

Also, in great part,
I had been freed from their false teachings
and the lies they spoke to me.
And I pray that they were also freed from my false teachings
and the lies that I spoke to them.

You know what I discovered is that
I can only be honest with you
in so far as I've been honest with myself.
So if I've lied to you because I was lying to myself,
please forgive me.

And this experience is by no means limited to my ex-wives.
Oh no, the more I pray in God's Holy Spirit,
the freer I become.
Sometimes I must admit
the process has felt like one step forward and three steps back.
Especially when I face illness or financial ruin
or a sense of isolation, alienation and exile.
This I am discovering is what it means to live by faith.

My afflictions, my sufferings,
they teach me perseverance.

And this perseverance layer after layer
builds godly character in me.
And the character of God embodied in human form
is capable of hoping.

And my faith now is a great confidence in what I hope for.
I live by this faith.
I live by this hope and this love.

God assures me that he will take me all the way home.
And I know that he is the only one I can trust to do that.
He will never forsake us.
Love never fails.

Even when death seems to overcome us,
even when we are betrayed by our friends,
until we can forgive those who have betrayed us,
we cannot forgive ourselves.

And this is what unification with our father is like.
We are one with God
and we are not separate from one another.
And if I judge you,
if I point my finger at you,
I am only condemning myself.

God is freeing us from this suffering
which says that I am separate from you.
I am relieved of the bondage of self,
the small mind, the ego.
This is what an ego dissolution is,
a commitment to the death of self.

And Jesus showed us how to die this death.
He showed us that death is an illusion.
It is not so permanent as we'd like to believe.
Sometimes what we are tempted to call final
is really only a portal, a window, a door
into the next stage of life.

When Jesus instructed us to pray for those who hurt us,
he was giving us the keys to his kingdom.
When he said, "Love your enemies,"
he was releasing us from the bounds of this earth.
When he said, "Bless those who curse you,"
he was sharing with us the abundant life.
He was showing us how to expand our consciousness.
He was inviting us into the Christ consciousness.

Turns out you can go to church for an entire lifetime
and never discover this.
But that's not how it has to be.

Security and earthly treasures can insulate us from this freedom.
That's why he advised the rich young man
to sell all his possessions and give his money to the poor.
And those of us who are poor in spirit,
the unstable and insecure,
we are very close to God's heart.

When we grieve, when we mourn,
the Holy Spirit will comfort us.
And when we ask him to purify our hearts,
we are asking to meet him face to face.

And there are plenty of opportunities to meet him here on earth.
When we meet another broken heart, there he is.
We open our hearts wide and we give until we are exhausted.
We give all to him over and over.
And in that giving,
he reveals to us those heart spaces which are not surrendered.
And so we give again.
We exhaust ourselves again.
We give all again.

What then will happen? You might ask.
How will we live if we've given everything?
Isn't that quite dangerous? You might rightly ask.
Yes, it is incredibly dangerous.
And this is what builds our trust in God.
He loves it when we volunteer for the initiation ceremonies.
He calls us to take up our very own cross.

And strangely enough,
I have found he teaches us how to give appropriately.
For he does not want us to cast our pearls into a pig pen.
In fact, he reveals to us through this process
how to shake the dust from our feet
and walk away from situations and people
who aren't ready for the depth of love
that he wants to bring through us.

We no longer have to be concerned with saving our own lives.
In our surrender to God, he cares for us.

He says, "You no longer have to worry
about what you will eat
or what you will wear
or where you will sleep."

He says, "All of you who work so hard,
all of you who bear terrible burdens,
come to me.
I will give you rest.
My yoke is easy and my burden is light.
You are free."

He says, "This world can seem like a terrible place sometimes."
But Jesus says that even if you have been betrayed
by those who said they loved you,
you do not have to fear.
You do not have to despair.

God gives us a spirit of power and love and a sound mind.

If you are ready to be born again into God's loving life,
please pray with me now.


───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                              PRAYER
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Dear God,
I acknowledge the great and cosmic work
that Jesus did on the cross.

Jesus showed us how to be crucified
without becoming a victim
when he died and rose again.

I believe that Jesus is seated in heavenly places
right next to the father almighty
and it is my desire to be right there with him
never alone again in Christ's body.

Lord Jesus, Father, Holy Spirit,
I trust you with my life.
Fill me with your perfect love
and show me where to go from here.
Use me to build your kingdom.
Set me free from the bondage of my own selfish will and desires.

Make your will my will.
I volunteer to participate in the initiation of Christ.
And I acknowledge that you alone, God,
are the only one who can accomplish this.

I love you, Lord.
I love you, Lord.
I love you.
Hold me.
Comfort me.
Speak to me in the way only you can.

We pray to you in the name of Jesus Yeshua.
Amen.
