Luke Erwinsky: Cast your nets on the other side
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ELGJWcmEaKY
August 3 2025


(Trav counting crabs on Luke's boat)

TRAV: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Thanks be to God. Jesus is real.

Luke Erwinsky took Traveling Trav out crabbing today. Wow.

Here's one little secret about Traveling Trav. He gets motion sickness. So, all it took was a couple of Dramamine and another anti-nausea medication for me to get out on the boat.

Leonard Cohen said that "if you don't become the ocean, you'll be seasick every day." Still working on that.

LUKE: I'm still really good friends with a lot of the people down here. You know, you build those kind of relationships. It's like lifelong bonds. It's kind of hard to explain.

TRAV: And you were telling me that story about that captain who you worked for for a long time and he would tell you to cast the nets onto the other side of the boat. And that would it would work, right?

LUKE: Yes. Yeah. We would be salmon trolling and we would literally switch our hooks, take these hooks on this side and stack them and then put them on the other side of the boat.

And that was a big... That wasn't easy to do. No. No, it was labor and it was time and then it was time not fishing. It just made no sense to me at the time. I was like, why would we do that?

And he would say, "Well, it's to honor God and I think he's going to honor us in that way."

And without fail every time we would catch fish.

He came down with Parkinson's and he says, "Well, we'll get you a deck hand." And we came in and we got this guy to work with me and I was not prepared, but I was ready. Mentally, I didn't feel like I was ready. I didn't feel like I was ready to be in command of anything.

TRAV: Well, taking charge of a vessel is a big responsibility.

LUKE: Right. Right. It was. And I realized the depth of that at the time, you know, that's why I didn't think I was going to be ready, but I was more than ready. The Lord prepared me.

Yeah. I love high-speed learning curve... that's kind of what I always refer to it as.

TRAV: A high-speed learning curve.

LUKE: I'm on the high-speed learning curve here, man. And I got to take it all in quickly.

TRAV: A high-speed learning curve. Yeah.

(Trav points to a green boat)

TRAV: This is the Emerald Sea.

LUKE: Yeah. And they are shrimping. They're rigged for shrimp.

TRAV: Oh, those are shrimp rigs. Those poles are meant to hold those nets.

LUKE: That's right. Yeah. And they put a net on each pole and they take turns.

TRAV: This is priceless, man. This is great. So, that's your crab ring.

LUKE: Yeah. Going over with it. 24 ft. Kind of like that.

(Trav and Luke sorting crabs)

LUKE: 23. Soft.

[Music]

LUKE: Right. That one wasn't. Look at that. There was a couple that were...

TRAV: Jesus is real.
