Paper Routes & Generational Trauma
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4sJEWDUWQmQ
September 10, 2025

L&tEoW
Labor and the expression of worth. Together, we are discovering our common
work, common stories, and common love.

When I was 15 years old, my dad brought three Daily Oklahoman paper routes into
our home as a family project. Seven days a week, 365 days a year. We began in
November, just as it was getting really cold.

On Sunday mornings, the work started at 2:30 a.m. The paper consisted of three
different parts, three small mountains of newsprint.

When we first began, the truck delivered the papers directly to our home. Every
morning, that big delivery truck chugged around the corner, air brakes hissing
it to a stop. We were the family, sometimes screaming and hissing at one
another.

In the summer, we left the garage door open for all the neighbors to hear.

At one point, the paper stopped delivering to our home, and we had to go pick
them up at the 7-Eleven every morning. On Sunday mornings, that pickup bed was
piled high, and the king cab was full, too.

Sleep deprivation was a very real part of our lives. I remember falling asleep
in geometry class when I was a sophomore and in English class when I was a
senior.

My dad was just trying to make ends meet. I have such compassion for that man
now.

Like me, he had a lot of different jobs. When he was a kid, his dad loaned him
out to a local farmer for the summer. He pumped gas. He was in the Air Force
loading bombs on fighter jets and later operating the boom on a KC-135
refueler. He ran my grandpa's glass shop for a little while. He sold insurance
for several different companies. He sold encyclopedias, World Books. He sold
cars. He sold pest control.

And then he brought those paper routes into our home for all of us to deal
with. It was serious business.

He went away for some Air Force training when I was 19. I was living at home
and going to college studying music. When he went away to his Air Force
training, the paper route was my responsibility.

When he came home from his boom operator school, my mother was gone. She left
him and I was there throwing the papers.

He went crazy with grief and we were there together in the mornings folding
those papers.

He looked at me one morning and he said, "You. You are the reason she left me."

He was so hurt, red-eyed, and mad with betrayal. His fingers clenched and
trembled as he resisted the urge to grab me and crush me.

But he didn't grab me.

My dad's dad hurt him physically. But my dad never punched me or kicked me like
his dad did to him. He just screamed at me until I cried. He could make me cry
like that just by screaming at me even after I was an adult.

But he didn't ever hit me.

And I am grateful for that. I have to be. I get to be grateful for that.

He did what he could to make things better for me and my brother. Just like me,
he vowed to be a better dad than his dad was, which is pretty much exactly what
I did. I tried to be a better father than my dad was.

But vows have a way of failing us, or rather, we have a way of failing vows.

Our inherited behavior has a way of sneaking up on us. As much as I tried to
squash down all that anger, it erupted one night on my family.

Hurt people hurt people.

It's not enough to say that I did the best that I could, but I am glad that I
can say that. I think that my dad can probably say the same thing.

When my anger finally erupted in my home, I made a confession to one of my
wife's friends and then I started going to a therapist. I did a lot of talk
therapy.

I've already written a lot about that in a number of videos. They're available
online in my archive. They are confessions. They are cautionary tales. I'm
doing my best to take responsibility for these generational curses, this
inherited hurt, these epigenetic traumas.

It was this devastation that brought me to God when I was 22 years old.

It is my hope in God that sustains me still today.

I'm sorry for any wrong behavior that might have hurt you. Today I am living
my amends.

That's all I know to do. I thought that I could tune in to my wife's needs. I
thought that if I was a sensitive and caring man that I could fix it. I missed
the mark. I overcorrected perhaps. I gave away my power.

And I have made quite a few videos already describing what that was like, too.
But I'm still doing these repetitions. Each time I write about it, every time
I reapproach, I can talk about it all with some more perspective.

I am not alone. Thank God we are not alone.

I have been working with men and my story means something to them. Sometimes I
talk about the mistakes I made. This is a generational thing. We are all in
this together. All the grandfathers, all the dads, all the kids, all the
grandmothers and mothers, the ancestors, the descendants, we are all working
together.

I can see that now. God is with us. Love never fails. There is hope.

Labor and the expression of worth. Together we are discovering our common work,
our common stories, and our common love.

May the Lord bless you and keep you. Cause his face to shine upon you, be
gracious to you, and give you peace.
