Red Church, Blue Church, "i" church, "you" church Part 5
https://youtu.be/Noz2lHB-fJo
14 views  Jul 26, 2025

---

I've spoken quite a lot about what I call the red church and the blue church. The red church is how I refer to religious conservatism or fundamentalism. And the blue church is what I call liberalism.

Liberalism is what happens to progressives when we become so lost in our own idealistic ideologies that we are no longer progressing. Progressivism.

---

Today I'm going to talk about the "i" church and the "you" church. It's pretty simple really.

The "i" church and the "you" church in my language represents the false teaching that we are somehow separate from God and that we are separate from one another.

It's a really simple concept and it is not separate from the teachings of Jesus. In fact, it is exactly what Jesus prayed that we would get when in the Gospel of John 17:21 he said:

"I pray that they will all be one, just as you and I are one — as you are in me, Father, and I am in you. And may they be in us so that the world will believe you sent me."

---

Jesus, in my view, is the one who came to restore us to oneness with God and with one another.

And if you were to do a really open study of what a whole bunch of spiritual teachers from various lineages are saying, you may come to discover, as I did, that this is what we are all trying to remind one another of.

In other words, the root of all our suffering is that we believe ourselves to be separate from one another and separate from God.

I'll say that again. The root of our suffering, the cause of all of our suffering, is that we believe ourselves to be separate from God and separate from one another.

---

It may sound real humble to say "there is a God and I am not him." But that is an ego statement. And an ego can only know separation. And it is the ego — or the false self — that must finally pass away, dissolving into the one Christ consciousness.

In that sense, the most humble statement that we can make is "I am God." Or if that one is too radical for you today: "I am not separate from God." Try that one on.

I am not separate from you. I am not separate from my fellow human being. We are not separate.

---

Please understand, making statements like these will inevitably lead you to the death of all that is false in you, which means suffering.

And this is one way to describe why Jesus, Yeshua, called us to share in his sufferings. When we embrace the way of the cross, we come to know our unity with God, our unity with our fellow human being.

In other words, after we take the cosmic joke really seriously for a very long time, perhaps we might start to laugh wildly at the great cosmic joker, Jesus, Yeshua, who is showing us from his most humble of stages how to get over ourselves.

---

Another thing that's worth noting along these lines: as we try to talk about this, as we try to come up with a language that is unified, we will drive ourselves mad. There's no way you can get around it.

We'll still talk about God like God is separate sometimes, and we'll still talk about one another as if we're separate, because we have to do these dances in this world.

So go ahead and try to talk about unity with God and unity with others. And then there's got to be a grace for when our language breaks down — which is just another lesson, because God the infinite is unspeakable.

Like the Dao that can be spoken is not the Dao at all.

---

Jesus also said that he did not come to bring peace and unity but he came to bring division when he said:

"Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace but a sword. And a person's enemies will be those of his own household." — Matthew 10:34-36

And therein lies an element of this dance that I was speaking of. It appears like there's going to be division in this world, and our job is to be past and through that division. We're engaged in this divine dance in which we forgive all of those who seem to be set against us.

---

Receiving Christ's message of oneness with God and our fellow human being is the most offensive thing one can do.

In fact, as we commit ourselves to this message and to this way of life, this truth — the world, all those others who cling to their sense of separateness, will crucify you, cancel, mock, and ridicule you.

The message of Christ is foolishness to those who are not being saved by it.

Embracing oneness with God will get you cast out of families and clubs and churches and state institutions.

And that's why Jesus said, "Don't be surprised when all of these things happen to you." It's a natural course when we begin to express the big love and when we come together to express the big love.

---

Jesus knew this would happen to him as he gathered his disciples in this great — uh — and his great band who is playing this song of the deepest love.

And this is why I've been talking about the transrational blues, right? The transrational blues, the transplural blues. It's the unsayable song that delivers us from the epigenetic curses, the trauma, uh, and the generational curses that we've all been under.

---

You see, the world is fueled by separateness. That's why war and for-profit prisons are such good business.

And oneness with God is a direct attack on the devil — the devil being the one who chose separateness from God.

Oneness with God is a direct attack on all the powers and principalities, his minions, the demons over which the prince of darkness rules.

We do not war against flesh and blood, but we war against these principles and powers of darkness as they manifest themselves in this world.

---

Embracing oneness with God is impossible — or rather, it is impossible without God.

Any and all efforts to understand oneness will exhaust those parts of our self — that self with a little "s" — that cannot get it. And that is why we say that every knee will eventually bow and every tongue will eventually confess that Jesus Christ is Lord.

Confessing his lordship is the path to the self-denial that must happen. And that path is the way of the cross.

The cross represents our trauma. Trauma is all about separation.

And when we enter into this new covenant with Jesus, free from the law, we are agreeing to God's plan to relieve us of the bondage of self with a little "s."

Our innermost self — that self with a big "S" — is our divine self. And it is in that divine being where we can truthfully say "I am God" or "I am the righteousness of God through Christ Jesus."

There is nothing good in me except for him. This life that I live in the flesh I live by my faith in the son of man. It is no longer I who lives but him who lives through me.

---

Members of the "i" churches and the "you" churches come in infinitely varied forms. In fact, these infinitely varied forms are responsible for the fragmentation of our cultures.

In other words, the devil is dividing us and setting us against one another. The name "devil" is one name we might use to describe that power which wants to separate us — separate us from God, separate us from one another.

The devil lies to us in telling us that we are separate from God and separate from one another. That is his only power, which is not true power at all.

Also, the devil tells us that we must depend on centralized government to unify us. And that centralized governing power — one world government — is the institution that the devil would have us bow to, thereby surrendering our true power, our Christ power.

---

Members of the "i" church and "you" church will find any reason to disqualify you, crucify you, and exile you for the purpose of insulating themselves from the truth.

And this is why we must learn to thrive in the cancel. We must learn to continue in our callings even when we are cancelled by the "i" church, "you" church crowds.

And it is in this cancel that our deepest and most helpful, our most loving work will emerge.

---

Do not despair. Despair is merely a symptom of separateness.

We must come to the conclusion that suffering and lack and separation, isolation, and yes, even death are all part of a great illusion. And our entire purpose in this life is to see through that illusion.

And that is where we find our true power. When we're no longer afraid of death, love is the way.

God hides his deepest power, his glory, behind the cross — where no one wants to go.

Jesus even said, "Father, please take this cup from me, but not my will be done." And that's the path we must look at and say, "Oh no, Father." Because it is only God that can take us there authentically, truthfully.

---

Do you see there how even Jesus had this sense of "Oh Father, please, let's not do this — but not my will but your will be done."

Even the masters who understand the unity will speak as if there is separation in this realm, right? Because that's just — it's kind of how we work it out here.

---

Here are the fundamentals. Are you ready?

We love our enemies.
We pray for those who have hurt us.
We bless those who curse us.
Love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
We have the power within ourselves.
Never give up.
Always surrender.

---

Yours in Christ. TravelinTrav.

And this is real. Like, spend time praying for those who have hurt you. It will blow you up in a beautiful way. You'll get over yourself when we bless those who curse us.

I mean, if you make a pie for somebody who hates you, you are — you're part of the Christ consciousness.

When we love our enemies, this is a real — this is experiential. It's not just a religion. It's a path.

When Jesus asked the rich young man to sell all of his possessions and give to the poor, that was a great affront to the institutions.

---

The monetary system is one way in. When we betray the monetary system, we'll begin to see through the matrix. We can't love money and love God at the same time.

So, it's a real practice and God will show you how to enter into it, freeing yourselves from the lies, from the illusions.

Yours in Christ.
