Part 1: Red Church, Blue Church, I Church, You Church
TravelinTrav YouTube channel
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKKqTzBcEBs
July 17, 2025

Back in 2016 when Trump was first
elected, I was on the far left. This is
back when I thought that left was right.
I mean, correct. Or rather, I thought
that being on the left was inherently
superior than being on the right.
Even before that election, I had been
observing in myself a kind of what you
might call self-righteousness.
In other words, I was noticing some of
the same psychological symptoms that I
had experienced with religion. One of
those symptoms was the superiority that
I mentioned. There was also this
hypocrisy
uh certain kind of hypocrisy that I saw
developing in myself that was it was
like where we said on the left that we
were very very open and you know
obviously very liberal yet it was the
same kind of exclusive mindset that I
had once experienced on the right in
what I call the red church
conservativism.
I noticed there was this other brand of
self-righteousness on the left. And it
wasn't out there in someone else. It was
in me. The university or academia had
replaced my church. The university was
my blue church. Red church, blue church,
I church, you church. My rational mind,
my academic mind was now trying to lord
over my storytelling mind. But this
outlaw poet just couldn't give up. that
that that guy, he's
he's so tricky.
My wife, it seemed to me, was suffering
severely from this sense of superiority.
And I believe that was because it was
she who had been more fully
indoctrinated into the academic church,
the blue church, because she had passed
through the formal initiation ceremonies
by earning her masters and her PhD.
I had an office in the music building
from where I taught, but I wasn't
required to participate in any of the
politics of the academic environment,
nor did I have to, you know, project
myself and and my intellect like she
did. I just got to teach and play. I
love to share this stuff with you guys
because not everybody's had the chance
to be in as many different arenas as I
have. The Lord's taken me on a a really
broad and expansive education journey.
Um I you know I got to be a cop, but
just for one year to kind of understand
what that feels like to wear a uniform
in this arena where I I wasn't really
threatened and I really didn't have to
hurt anyone bad either. But I did get to
feel what it was like to take people to
jail and I knew, oh god, I don't want to
do that. So I kind of got to do the same
thing with academia just kind of
skirting that abyss.
Today I want to talk a little bit about
ideologies. There were three main
ideologies that I encountered in
academia which in the end were all
devastating for me. Although I can't
really regret having investigated them.
It's kind of like going into the pit of
hell and coming out with a, you know, a
treasure or something, you know, like
retrieving your helm like Sandman or
something, you know. Um, so in in
academia, what I discovered was
feminism, Marxism, and Darwinism.
That being said, I still love Bell Hooks
and Karl Marx and Charles Darwin. So
don't get me wrong here yet. Don't
assume you know where I'm going with
this, okay? I was immersed in feminist
culture. I loved my feminist friends.
I'm not going to get it all out in this
video, but I just want to to let you
know that. And Carl Marx, what a
brilliant mind. I mean, he's got this
analytical mind and he's just trying to
figure things out. He's he's born into
religion and he sees that something's
not working there and he has this
criticism of capitalism which is
actually right on and then he kind of
comes up with another religion to fix
that and we know that didn't go well
with communism and it's it's all really
interesting stuff and it's worth
studying Darwin I love that brother
still when I read Darwin I hear love and
I see this human struggle in his
struggle as he is trying to figure out
what happened and he's making his best
scientific uh estimates and it's just
it's beautiful stuff. So, please don't
get the wrong idea about where I'm going
here. Once again, when I talk about
this, it's like I encounter the joy of a
father watching his children growing up.
God the father watching his children. I
also want to talk about a little bit
about conservativism and liberalism.
Anytime you put an ism on the end of
something, if it's an ism, it's
unconscious somehow and also it's not
helpful. An ism in my world equates to
religious blindness.
Anytime we discover a new religion or a
spiritual practice, we're enamored with
it and we're generally brought into it
by a culture. And that's what it was
like at the university or the university
that I experienced.
The university is where we seek that
universal wisdom like a Dickens
character in a novel. Seeking authentic
knowledge.
These are obviously deep subjects which
books have been written about already. I
as a teacher am really just trying to
spark curiosity and kind of help you to
know what I've seen and where I've come
from. These are the connection points.
Me and my ex-wife, we were running from
the ignorance on the right, the
conservativism, religious
fundamentalism. We had seen something in
that that just wasn't sufficient, that
wasn't Jesus, that wasn't helpful, that
wasn't compassionate. And so we ran to
the blue church from the red church,
thinking, "We've arrived. Free at last.
Free at last. Here are the truly
intelligent people." And looking back,
oh my gosh, I was indoctrinated.
And it was really ridiculous. Looking
back on it, it's so similar to the
self-righteousness that you might
experience at a church. People who think
they know that don't really know. Very
much like in in the red church, in
conservativeism,
we get the same thing in liberalism.
So, in 2016 when Trump was elected and
we just saw the left melting down into
these immature rants uh of insanity,
I stepped back and I was just going,
"Oh, I'm not I'm not in that club." You
know, that's that's not my response. In
other words, God had already done
sufficient work in me to where I took
that meltdown as my cue to abandon the
isms, the ideologies.
And I think when I started to see
through feminism and how I had just
demonized myself as a man, how I well, I
was trying to help my wife to feel safe
and to feel secure. And I had been
raised in an environment where I didn't
really have the type of masculine energy
that she really needed, that she
deserved. We were both in this deep,
long recovery process, trying to
discover things in ourselves that had
really never been nurtured in us as
children. You know how it is. I mean, it
this is not a sad story really. This is
just what life is like, right? We were
privileged to have the opportunity to
experience what I'm talking about right
now. Literally, I'm grateful to have
this story to share with you. in my
efforts to help her to be safe. This
whole feminism journey that we went on
and me trying to crush the nuts of the
great patriarch, you know, it just it
was like we just we just kind of fell
apart because I could no longer um
submit myself to her um as as the leader
figure in our home, which I had just
kind of given up the reigns. Um, and
also that's tied in with my uh illness
too with these migraine headaches and
all the neurological fallout that goes
um with all of that. So, this all of a
sudden got really personal. But that's
kind of what life is like, right? And
that's what I think I have a gift to
share. I'm going to continue this story
in the next video or the next videos
that I've been waiting for this stuff to
start coming out. this I've been dying
really just trying to stay alive because
I knew that this this part of my story
needed to be told and it's coming and
I'm grateful to be able to share it with
you. There's no conclusion today.
Kind of like life. May the Lord bless
you and keep you. Cause his face to
shine upon you.

All

From Travelin Trav

Belief

Related

For you

Recently uploaded

Watched

