Day 19
9:00AM
The middle-aged man found himself packing. The middle-aged-man found himself preparing a sandwich for the road and some of the home-made caramels that his aunt had given him in Kansas. He packed a banana which he knew he probably wouldn’t eat because he had the caramels. He packed a package of Belveeta crackers, orange cranberry flavored. More than enough food for his six and a half hour journey home.
The hatchback of the little blue toyota stood open in the street as he loaded his car, the windshield frosted over from the cold and moisture of the night before. He loaded his guitar, his mandolin, his suitcase, his books, and his writing tools, including his trusty chromebook, which he’d purchased months ago on a hunch that he would need it. 
As he scanned his mother’s house for his things, he discovered his mug on the kitchen counter—the mug that his mother bought for him with the typewriter on it to celebrate the writing of these words. On three yellow post-it notes he wrote a note of gratitude to his mother and her husband, thanking them for their generosity and their hospitality, their love, their acceptance. 
And he asked his mother, in the note, to please tell Sebby, the next door neighbor boy with the powered scooter how much he’d enjoyed making his acquaintance.
Having packed his belongings into the little blue toyota he got on his way.
He passed under the Rockwell Ave bridge as he travelled West on the turnpike. “Exact Change Only,” read the sign, only after he got on the turnpike. But that was okay, because he had exact change today thanks to his mother and father, who between the two of them, had provided him with just enough change for the turnpike to last his entire stay.
He had come with his children, listening to the Prince of Egypt soundtrack with his Eldest daughter two Fridays ago. He’d had a lovely time with his children and his mother celebrating Christmas. He made the trip to Bentonville to visit those two that had encouraged him on this writing project, those two who had encouraged him in the writing and in this journey of healing. That day in Bentonville, Arkansas where he did not expect to meet Sapphos of Lesbos. Harbor Dave encouraged him to work on his dialogue. Eileen had encouraged him to yield to the spirit of Life which flows through all of us, the Universal Eileen, the one who had sent him the string of words which moved him as powerfully as any other string of words ever had.
He brought his children to meet his father at Louie’s at lake Hefner where he’d been served moldy black brocolli. He stayed two nights at his father’s house, going to the place that scared him, once again, giving himself to the trauma ceremony that his father chose to live over and over again in his own being. But this time during the ceremony he had blessed the father who had given him so much. He blessed the man who had also taken so much from him. Although he grieved deeply again the loss that he’d experienced in the most recent attack from his father, the middle-aged-man felt quite certain that the father had no power to take anything from him ever again.
The middle-aged-man stopped to pay the toll. The coins jingled into the large plastic cone receptacle one at a time. The toll light turned from red to green. He pushed the accelerator toward the floor. The car moved forward. He rolled up his window. This was the last toll that the middle-aged-man was required to pay as he left the city.
As he accelerated through the on-ramp he remembered the prayer of his hurting inner-child. It was a prayer that had emanated from his very own heart just hours after his father attacked him again, “Please, don’t make me go back. I don’t want to go back ever again. Please, don’t make me go back.” The man knew that his heavenly father made no requirements of him to go back again. The heavenly father—the being who demands nothing. The one who sees and acknowledges. The one who gives the blessing that cannot be revoked except by one’s ego. The middle-aged-man’s earthly father tried to take his blessing back once again. The father tried to replace the blessing that the son had already accepted. But the middle-aged-man was now more certain than ever that this was not the way of things.
ACIM was teaching him that there were no neutral thoughts. A thought is either contributing to the teachings of love in his life and in those around him or his thoughts were contributing to the strengthening of the great illusion of fear and separation. Today as the midle-aged-man payed his last toll with the money that his mother and father had given him he knew that he was not required to return to his father’s home ever again. And so, once again he accepted the gift, the ceremony, the only ceremony that his earthly father was able to give him. 
As he continued on the turnpike he approached the exit to his father’s home. Or maybe he had already passed it. “Maybe I already passed it,” chuckled the middle-aged-man.

 The sun was still rising in the sky. A red GMC Sierrra passed him on the left. Yes, it was true, he had passed the exit to his father’s home without even knowing it. The exit for I-40 West drew near. A slight movement of the steering wheel to the right turned his car once again in a westerly direction toward the beloved muse. He felt a relief as he merged into the traffic on I-40, that great interstate that bisects the large metro area of OKC. Garth Brooks Boulevard approached, one and a half miles ahead. Garth Brooks the famous singer who graduated from the same highschool as the middle-aged-man. Garth Brooks, the performer who people had always asked the young man if he’d be the next of—“Are you going to be the next Garth Brooks, son?” people asked as the young man played his latest songs. “I don’t think so,” the young man would say, the question perplexing him somewhat.

“When you write songs” said the middle-aged-man, “When you dedicate yourself to song writing people often listen to your songs and tell you what it sounds like to them. It’s difficult for a young man growing up to write songs of his own. It’s a beautiful challenge to try to find one’s own voice. A gift to watch one’s voice develop and to eventually find a voice that is an authentic and somewhat original sound. We are all informed by the songs that have been written before us. Any original sound or original idea is perhaps worth dying for.”
And so the writer found himself having come full circle back to the original email that he’d sent dave and Eileen and Dave (Dave and Eileen), the one in which he was reminded that the Christ never wrote a story of his own. The one in which he was reminded of the author whose name he could not remember, and fittingly so because the message of this author was that in order for the reader to experience her own birth the author must find his death.

Garth Brooks Avenue came and went. The middle-aged-man found himself in the flow of traffic in the westward moving lanes of interstat 40. The same road that he’d travelled well over seventeen years ago now as he made his way to the little college-cow-town, singing the song that went like this: “Maybe I could ride straight through to my destiny—like a highwayman the best of me seems to be on the road where my future’s laid wide open.”
He remembered how Stephen Schettini had asked him to do a miracle, the reformed buddhist monk, the non-theist, if that is really a thing, had asked him to do a miracle.  And so in the name of the great Love, the reality, the true nature of being, the man once again accepted the miracle that was coming to pass in his very own heart. The man knew that his being could not be defined by any one label or any word, be that a medical diagnosis like ‘bipolar disorder’, or be that one of the words from his youth, “fag” buttfucker, homo…those words that had been spoken with such disgust, those words that were created in fear. The man knew that he had no obligation to take up any words. He knew that he had no obligation to make any promises or pledges or even….the man knew that he was incapable of re-inventing himself, for he had done that innumerable times. As the man drove away from the great crossroads in the heartland of the great nation which lay on one side of a great irregular sphere which hurtled through the expanding universe, part of an interconnected solar system in balance which was in turn connected with a greater galaxy, the milky way, which was in turn in relationship to how many other billions of galaxies? Yes, as the man drove away from that one very tiny crossroads in a vast multiverse he was connected to the source. He was connected to a deeper power, a greater purpose. It was his intention to live a full and rich life. It was his intention to continue to live this full and rich life in which he was already engaged. It was his intention to say yes to a universe that was out to help him.

His mother had come in to say goodbye that morning as the writer sat in his favorite reclined position facing the east, the direction of the innocent sage, the trickster, the sacred fool. He told her of his plan to visit Bruce, of his hope to experience a deeper healing than the bible belt had to offer him. His plans to possibly leave this country, even if it was just across the border for the first time in his life. Her eyes appeared nothing less than concerned. “I don’t know what to say,” she said.
“That’s okay,” said her son, “You don’t have to say anything. You don’t have to do anything. You’ve done everything just right.” They hugged, the mother and son. She left for work. The man’s yellow elk skin gloves rested in the passenger seat of his little blue toyota with the cracked glass that his youngest daughter had nearly pushed out. The cracked windshield that his daughter had nearly pushed out of the frame. His yellow elk skin (praise be to that great mother). The gloves that had kept his hands warm as he sat so many days ago waiting for a ride that would never come in Amarillo as he first tried to make his pilgrimage to Oklahoma City.
He’d given up on that pilgrimage as he settled his external fram kelty in the booth at Denny’s. He found a place for his large cardboard sign and mandolin. He received a call from his young friend Jerry, as he decided to be honest in his moment of despair as Jerry said, “I’m worrie about you, are you okay?” The hitchhiker confessed that he was ready to come home and he found no shame in himself tht day as Jerry came to pik him up. He allowed himself to move in a direction with as poor a plan as might be appropriate sometimes. With as little forethrought as he could allow himself to not have. As he writer continued west on I-40 he remembered the man that he’d met at lake Hefner, the man who cared for the feral colong, the man whose voice the tiny cat with the matted hair who breathed with much distress had emerged from her little cat house to greet the kind and gentle old man.

The old man also asked the middle-aged-man if he was okay, to which the middle-aged-man replied, “yes, I’m Okay. Thank you very much for asking.”

Miracle after miracle was happening in the man’s life. Miracle after miracle of self-acceptance and self-love and inner exploration. Miracle after miracle of kindness and generosity, nurturing, compassion, the great turning was turning over and over in the life of this individual. The macro univers contained in the micro-univers. The micro universe expressed in the macro. And yes, dear reader, the man was lingering. The middle-aged-man lingered in your company for he did not want to say goodbye.

Dear reader, this gentle man does not wish to part company with you. What the middle-aged-man knew that this real time writing experiement could not go on forever and ever. It was time to begin ediing. It was time to begin looking at the creation that had been born into this world. It was time to give it the love and the care that it needed in order that you, dear reader, might eperiences it in its fullness. And so it came to pass that the writer said one more farewell to you, dear reader, a farewell that was never really a goodby as long as dying-author and reader held one another in each other’s hearts. There was still one short story to tell. A story which the writer had seen coming for days and days now. A story that the writer thought he was going to tell two days ago which he ended up telling in person to his mother first. A story that once again he found himself holding himself from in his reluctance to release this project, in his reluctance to release this exhange, this interaction that he was not having with you, dear reader. The writer breathed in. the writer breathed out as he allowed his final story to come.


Day 20
4:11AM
Early the next morning, the writer reestablished his North-facing writing-center at the great marbled island in the adobe home. The three ACIM books and his old bible once again supporting his chromebook as he faced the large mirror. 
He fed and watered his growing African violet and the thick-stalked basil plant that his mother had given him last summer.
He played several songs on his guitar and doodled in E major for some time.
He placed the three pillows in front of the sink, where it was his custom to retreat when faced with the binary.
The writer allowed himself to pause in this space before writing any further. He continued to linger in what he felt to be the concluding moments of the real-time writing of his project. He was aware of an anxiety in his being this morning.
The day before, as he traveled West on I-40, he stopped at a great cross which towered on the horizon just south of the interstate as he approached. It was advertised on the preceding billboards as some kind of crucifixion rest stop. He needed to pee, and he was interested. There were other places he could have peed. He wanted to pee there.
He parked his car in the gravel parking lot. He made his way past statues of Christ and those he’d encountered on that fateful day of his crucifixion. He made his way up a great entrance where a  life-sized bronze statue of Jesus stood amidst a great flowing fountain. The middle-aged-man found the entrance to the gift shop. He entered.
He walked into a large sweet-smelling room packed with items that he judged would mostly interest the fundamentalist Christian. A woman who reminded him of a librarian emerged from a back room. “The bathrooms are that way,” said the woman, “We are glad that you are visiting us today.”
The man used the restroom. He emerged from the bathroom, surprised to meet himself in a mirror just as he opened the door to exit. It surprised him. He wondered if it was placed their intentionally to somehow surprise people. As the man met his own bearded image in the mirror, he felt that maybe he was meeting the Christ in this gift shop. The man perused the items in the gift shop, wondering if he could find anything that spoke to him. With a surface scan he found nothing that resounded with him as Universal in nature. The man was on guard, obviously, half-expecting to be overwhelmed by a spirit of fundamentalism against his will.
He stepped out of the gift shop without encountering the librarian again. He approached the great fountain. He gazed upon the figure of Jesus standing in the midst of the flowing waters. The man felt utterly exhausted. He was grieving the incident with his father. The man leaned up against a man-made great stone pillar. He found himself a participant in the glory of what had been created here, this homage to the living Christ. The magnitude of this creation was truly impressive and he found himself wrapped up in the love and the dedication of the hands and hearts that had erected this great monument to the story of the life that was lived over two-thousand years ago.
He found himself leaning against this man-made stone structure asking God for further assistance. He found himself participating in a form which would have once been taboo to him. Just two years ago he would have only allowed himself to deconstruct and criticize what he now gave his heart to. One last time, he focused on the welcoming Christ who stook in the midst of the flowing waters. He then returned to the statues which encircled the gigantic white metallic cross. The statues were dwarfed by the looming white, behemoth. 
The man allowed himself the luxury of non-judgment. Yes, he was aware of all the reasons that he might allow himself to discount this monstrosity, but his judgment was suspended just enough that he was present. He was participating.
He approached the first station where a statue of the Christ stood facing pontias pilate who sat on a throne. The Christ gazed at the Roman ruler with surrender in his eyes. He would make no justification for himself. He and his friends were making deep love to this world. And, the Christ knew that his own death would be the orgasm that planted its seed in the womb of consciousness. 
The cross was placed on the back of the Christ. He willingly carried it. He met people along the way. A man named Simon helped him carry the cross when he grew weary. He saw his mother too. He asked her for her witness. He asked her to see into a deeper reality. He asked her to see her son as the Universal. He asked her to experience his death as the death that would give the world insight into the true nature of reality—the seed that goes into the earth and dies and becomes a tree. He asked his mother to see the spiraling serpent that was the staircase by which consciousness ascended and eventually integrated all forms below. “Please mother,” he said, “don’t’ try to stop this. This is what I came to do. This is what I came to reveal.”
And so the journey of the Christ continued until he was laid on the ground in a supine position on two large pieces of wood. Nails were driven into his hands and feet and he was lifted up in between two men who were also suffering deeply as they watched their life passing away from them. 
One of these men accepted the great What-Is that he was experiencing in that moment. This man looked upon the One who hung beside him and saw his brother. He gave himself to the same process that the Christ was willingly surrendering to, and in so doing, he made peace with himself and all that was. 
Another man that hung beside the Christ was unable to accept the suffering. He was unable to make peace with the nature of reality. He was unable to accept his own death. He was unable to reconcile himself to the great What-Is, that which is happening right now which we have no control over.

And so the Christ, in his deepest moment of suffering, In this moment when it truly felt to him that his father had forsaken him, he called out. He cried out in that moment of deepest despair, giving thanks for the life that he had lived and all the people that had loved him and all those that he had loved.
“Thank you, Father. You are a good Father. I am suffering Father. My hands and feet have been nailed to this tree and my body is suffering deeply. I feel humiliated, Father. I have been kicked and beaten and stabbed. So many have left me and I feel so alone, Father. Please, Father, I do not know how much more of this I can take. I am having difficulty breathing. I know that things are not nearly as solid as they appear to be right now, but I am hurting. I am hurting so badly. I feel alone, Father. I am looking at this world and it truly appears very dark to me. I am terrified, Father. My body is quivering and fear is racking my consciousness. It is difficult for me not to ask now what it is that I have done wrong. What have I done to deserve this, this is the question that I prevent myself from asking right now. My being is now filled with the sickness of these “others,” these people who have seen the great love that me and my people have made to this world. These people who witnessed our great love and now are tyring to destroy the great love that we have made. I have now become the witness to all the great suffering in this world. I have now become the suffering that these people have brought upon themselves. I am folded in Father. I do not know how I will come back. I am losing my mind, Father. How long will this last? How long can I feel this without turning on them, Father. How long can I experience this without hating myself, without despising the very suffering that I have become? I feel as if Life itself is punishing me. I feel what they feel. I feel absolutely alone. I feel absolutely scared. I feel absolutely separated, and my flesh is pulling on the nails at my hands and feet. My bones are grinding now against the hard nails and breathing is excruciatingly painful, Father. Father, why have you forsaken me. What have I done to deserve this separation that I now feel from you? Why am I all alone? Father, I am dying now. The light is changing colors, Father. There is nothing I can do to save myself. This is really happening. I am fading. Please, Father. Hold me. Hold me, Father. I just want to be held now, Father.”
And it was in that moment of deepest despair and suffering that this Universal man, as death was overcoming him, made peace with everything that was. It was in that moment that he accepted the true nature of reality. It was in that moment that he made peace with his own death. And it was in that moment that his death became the Universal story of all death. It was in that moment that he accepted all that was. It was in that moment that, as his body continued trembling and quivering in its death throes, there was an inner peace that came upon this man. As he made peace with his own being in this way, he was able to say:
“Father, Forgive them. They don’t know what the fuck they are doing. And that’s okay. It’s actually understandable, considering the big picture. Things are just as they should be. Please forgive them, Father. Please forgive them. I am done here. I am the seed. I am the One. I am the One who is crucified. I AM. The rising Christ. 
And so it came to pass that the middle aged man found himself sitting on the steps convulsing. Sobbing and crying with the pain of the interaction with his father just days ago. So it came to pass that the man had said ‘yes’ to his own death as he had approached his own earthly father. And the Son was free to grieve without any shame. He was the only person at the crucifixion rest stop that windy day in the Texas panhandle. He checked periodically to see if there was anyone pulling into the gravel parking lot. But there was not. So there he remained for quite some time, giving himself to the grief. 
The Son was finally able to give himself to a grief that was free of shame and self-condemnation. The Son had finally seen his father for who he was. The man was now a five year old boy. The five year old boy now understood that there was not anything he could say or do that would make his daddy love him. There was nothing he could ever say or do to make his daddy happy. The five year old boy saw that his father was a hopelessly lost and angry soul who could only blame others for his own pain. The five year old boy was free at last. He was free to grow up. He was free to be himself. He was free. 
Having cried all the tears that this location could contain. The man rose. He walked along the path to the tomb, where the stone was rolled away. He entered the tomb and he lay in there for a time, awaiting his resurrection. When it was time, he rolled over and sat up. He greeted the angels who awaited him. His hands came together and he raised them to his forehead. He bowed toward his heart. He took a selfie. His eyes were red and moist with tears, his body exhausted and aching. He took a picture of the tomb’s exit, hoping that it would remind him one day of this time in his life.
He returned to his little blue car. Started the engine, placed the transmission into reverse and listened to the gravel crunch beneath the tires. There was a night-deposit prayer-request box on his way out. He found his receipt from the Oklahoma City Zoo lying in the passenger seat. “Pray for healing,” he wrote on the receipt. He half-stumbled out of the car and placed it in the prayer box.

After several more hours of travel he arrived in the city that neighbored his own, just in time for his appointment with the nurse practitioner who would hopefully approve his continued medical leave. He sat in the office shedding two of the many layers of clothing that he wore on his upper body. Just as he took off his jacket and hoodie, the mother of his children appeared as she was leaving a Dr appointment. The man smiled at her, saying, “Hey, how’s it going.” She passed without stopping, only very politely acknowledging the middle-aged-man’s presence. He felt an energy in his chest. He noticed himself start to tell a story around that fearful energy in his chest. He opened his being up to the Universe. He thanked God for the rich and diverse experiences of life. He accepted the energy for exactly what it was. 
He sat there in the waiting room with the sound of the television and other noises which came from a game that a little girl was playing on her mother’s cell phone. The little girl’s father bent over in request that his wife massage his neck. The man saw the suffering of life in this little family. The man saw his own suffering in them. He phased in and out of thoughts which jumped back and forth between love and fear. He continued to choose love.
The middle-man-was called for by the medical assistant. He was weighed (160.3 pounds) and his blood pressure was taken (120/80). When Lindsey, the nurse practitioner finally sat down with him in the large treatment room, He told her about the healing journey that he was on. He told her about his writing. He told her about the interaction with his father. He told her about the trauma that was still very present with him. He told her about his fluid sexual non-orientation. He told her that he was in the middle of a healing process and that he was not in the least bit ready to return to work. He told her that he was in a fragile and tender state and that he was not ready to perform patient care. He did not know that he would ever be ready to perform patient-care, but he did not say that to Lindsey, the woman who sat patiently and kindly, typing into her laptop.
Having tended to this practical matter, he left the doctor’s office and resumed his journey. As he rolled into the college-cow-town he called his friend Ron. Ron invited him over. The middle-aged-man walked through the doors of the two aging artist’s home, the yellowing temple of music and hanging creations fashioned from items that people had thrown away.
The middle-aged-man recounted the highlights of his trip to Oklahoma city—his time with his children and his mother, the painful visit with his father, the many life-affirming meetings with old friends. He also spoke of the successful continuation of his writing project and the feminine spirit that the middle-aged-man detected arising from within.
Ron had just finished doing some set-up work on his Marler guitar. He walked into his back room and returned with the dark-wooded instrument. He placed it in the middle-aged-man’s hands. The middle-aged-man played joyfully, fascinated by the deep, earthly tones and the ease with which it now played. He sang. He played musical doodles. The man continued to share about his life in the safety of his two friend’s home. 
At 6PM he left Ron and Joann’s thinking about his friend Dan who was chairing an AA meeting across town. The middle-aged-man parked his car in front of the Church of Christ student center and walked in through the propped door. Dan smiled and laughed his famous laugh as the middle-aged-man sat down next to him on a comfy green couch. 
The readings were read. The meeting started. There were a couple of newcomers there, those men who were now finding the courage to acknowledge their own suffering. Those men who were acknowledging the gift of desperation. Those men who were at step 1, admitting that they were powerless over their ego, and that life had become unmanageable. 
The sharing began. A young man who had just received a twenty-four-hour chip had a question.
It was then that the middle-aged man received a text from his son-in-law. The exchange began earlier in the day as the middle-aged-man was travelling I-40. It had gone like this:
Middle-aged-man: Hey bud. How’s it going?
Son-in-law: Hey there! Happy New Years to you! LOL. I’m doing well. How about you?
MAM: I’m good. Finally heading back to the college-cow-town from OKC. I was hoping to get about six tabs from you, or rather, through you. I’ve given myself almost two weeks to kind of come back together from Christmas morning. I’m ready to continue this healing journey.
Son-in-law: Not all six at once, right?
MAM: No. thank you for your concern. I love you. I won’t take all 6 at once. I’m planning a string of healing journeys.
Son-in-law: lol you’re free to do as you please. That would just worry me is all lol. I see
MAM: Yes. I think that would be a pretty terrible thing to do to myself. Although the “journey of 10” (the man’s “lethal dose”) which I just now named it, did have a lasting and postive effect so far. But, no, a mega-dose is not in my plan right now. There was something I experienced with the tabs that I need to explore further. Something rose up from within me that I need to meet again—a part of me with which I need to make a lasting peace. A part of me that was crushed when I was a child—a part of me that I felt compelled to continue crushing as I became an adult.
Son-in-law: Yes, of course. It may show you the most beautiful heaven, but it can also bring you to the deepest pits of hell. With that stuff, it can always get much darker and deeper and more traumatizing. Thanks for sharing your reasons for wanting to do it.
MAM: I’ve written three hundred pages of my draft
Son-in-law: Oh wow! That’s awesome. 
MAM: have you read much of Dismantled? The book by Sanguin?
Son-in-law: lol no sorry I really need to continue it.
MAM: that book is really providing support for me as I continue this healing process with the medicine. I’m eighty-five percent through it according to the kindle app. I’ve really been experiencing a lot of grief from all the years of layered trauma. I feel that I am being held and led by the Spirit in this process.
Son-in-law: Cool! A lot of books have my attention right now so I forget about some of them lol. I should probably just pick one and stick with it. 
MAM: I think it’s totally okay to jump around as your curiosity leads you. I have read many more partial books than I have ever finished (blushing smiley-face emoticon)
Son-in-law: that’s good to know! I’m really interested in continuing it for sure though
MAM: in school you have to read books. In life you get to read books. Those two things aren’t necessarily mutually exclusive.
Son-in-law: That makes sense. I’m excited to keep on reading for sure. Never had a desire until pretty recently.

MAM: It’s definitely not my job to give you any assigned readings. LOL. There’s a verse in the bible that says something to the effect that we are like “heavenly poems spoken for His purpose.” Really, when you’re reading a book you’re reading the heart of another human being, and possibly the very heart of God. If we are all manifestations of the Universal Christ then we are all writing the sacred tomes and poems of the Universe. As we connect with one another we are gaining insight into the nature of reality, which is why we need to be in touch with the greater depths of our Being. If we are not in touch, we are speaking shallow words at best, hurtful and destructive words at worst, and always contributing to the illusion of fear. Now that you have experienced the Unity of all Life, you will be searching for those depths for the rest of yours. Which is why the medicine is illegal! LOL. Experiencing the Unity is not how you fuel the ego machine. And that’s why we have to allow the medicine to teach us how to live our lives on a daily basis. What I mean is, we allow the times we have under the direct influence to inform our daily lives. We bring our experiences back with us, and we allow Life to be lived through us. We allow the price to be channeled through us…The Christ haha not the price. Although it does come with a price. The cost of saying “yes” to life, from what I understand, is everything that we once called life. Anyway, that’s the message that I’m getting. You try to save your life you lose it. You give away your life you save it. Etc etc. Anyhow, I got a $100 bill I can put in your hand, cuz I’d like to get those tabs.
And it was as a result of this text exchange that the middle-aged-man received a text from his son-in-law as he sat at the AA meeting saying:
Son-in-law: Okay are you home so I can get that money from you?
And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man arose from the green couch where he was seated next to his AA sponsor. He walked out the door to go get the tabs of LSD which he called medicine, the tabs which he truly hoped were acting as medicine in his life. 
The son-in-law was able to get the middle-aged-man four tabs of LSD. The writer, as he stood in his North facing postion in he great kitchen,was now considering the possibility of dropping a tab.
It was then that the writer who stood at the great marble island in the kitchen of the adobe home left his work station, and not knowing his destination, found himself sitting on the stairs that led to Dan’s room. He was seated on the stairs in a North-Easterly direction.
The writer was now being haunted by the email that he’d sent to Bruce just twenty four hours before. More accurately, he was haunted by the response that he’d received from Bruce that waited in his inbox yet to be opened. He did not feel as sure about making the trip to Vancouver as he did yesterday. He wondered if his messages to Bruce were just a way for himself to grant his own permission to continue the personal healing that was already taking place. Did he need to spend all that money that he didn’t really have to go to Vancouver? He was very afraid to open that email from Bruce. 
He felt emarassed. “What is embarassed?” he asked himelf. “Fear? Is that what embarassed is? Shame? Is that what it is?”
He was reluctant to part with all his money.
“Go to the places that scare you,” he heard the Universal Pema say.
The writer decided that he was not yet ready to open the email. He decided to wait as he watched the courage arise from within himself. “Going to the places that scare us does not mean that we have to directly assault our senses with fear after fear,” He thought to himself. 
There was another thing weighing on his mind too. It had to do with the man that he’d met at IHOP and a text exchange that they’d had the day before. The exhange was recorded like this:
Friend: Are you in Edmond around noon?
MAM: Hey bud, I just left town this morning…When I’m around you I really like myself. I think that’s a pretty cool thing, when I’m not expecting those around me to fill me up. But, when those around me, just their presence, is allowing me to be filled from the inside, allowing me to fall in love with myself…When I’m with you I’m in touch with my Christ nature. And that makes you a very attractive human being to me. You have always given me that gift…You allowed yourself to follow something in me years ago. You allowed yourself to follow me down to Southern Oklahoma. There was something in me that attracted you. I am allowing that love that we made at IHOP the other night to have it’s work in me.
Friend: Well dang! I was hoping for lunch!! I’m honored! And yes, I have always been attracted to you. I don’t know what it is but I’ve always desired to be connected to you! Thank you for the gift also!
MAM: Thank you for allowing me to experience the Universal, for allowing me to experience the Cosmic Christ. The absolute openness of our Being… In Christ there is no fear. There is no form that cannot be embraced. In Christ there is no fear illusion. There is only absolute openness and love. I pray that we would fall deeply in love with this Christ who is inevitably arising from within the infinite depths of our Being….Jesus was the first man I ever allowed myself to fall in love with. Even within the bounds of Christian fundamentalism in the Bible Belt, someone can still fall in love with a man named Jesus…That man captured my heart like no one I’ve ever met. I do not know how I will make peace with this feminine being that is arising from within me. But I know I must let her arise….I allowed myself to imagine for a brief moment yesterday morning what it would be like to be held by you. I allowed myself to make peace with that part of me that wants that. There was a deep tenderness and vulnerability that came with all of that…I am trusting god with whatever that is.
Friend: Thank you for being so vulnerable with me! I would be lying if I said I had not considered that…I do not know how that would turn out…the thought did excite me to be honest.
8 hours later
Friend: Should I not have said that?
MAM: it’s okay that you said that.
Friend: OK. I don’t want to make you uncomfortable

And so it came to pass that this text exchange was presented to the writer as he transcribed this exchange into his chromebook. And so it came to pass that a single tab of LSD sat on the marbled countertop inside a baggie that had once contained mushrooms. Praise be to the one who turned the rock into soil!
The LSD was the medicine that allowed the man to commune with his sister the tree as he manifested a tree Goddess from within himself as the men worked their machinery and shovels just on the other side of the permeable evergreens. This is what the man sensed that he was saying ‘yes’ to as he considered taking the single tab of LSD. He knew that he could not predict any outcomes. He did not wish to assume he knew what all of this meant. He was just trying to follow. It was his intention to allow Life to be lived through him. 
Eli had missed the middle-aged man. There was an anxiety about him as they shared a bed the night before. Ten days he’d spent alone at the adobe house. Every time the man rolled over, the cat immediately walked over the man, or around the man’s head to place himself directly in front of the man’s face. He clawed the sheets and begged for attention all night long, hardly allowing the man to rest. There was a loneliness that presented itself to the man in the being of the cat, a loneliness that would not be held, a loneliness that would not be made content in the presence of another, a loneliness which persisted despite the fact that the cat was now not alone.
The man tried to hold the cat. He spoke to the cat saying, “You are a good cat. A good good cat. You are a good Eli.” Sometimes the man firmly protested as the cat dug his claws into the mans arms and neck and chest and face. “uh uh! No” said the man as he was raised from his sleep time and time again. 
The writer wrote. For over four hours he’d given himself to the process as he allowed the memories of yesterday to come forth. He wondered how much resolution was enough resolution for his reader. Was it enough to leave it as it was? He was waiting for the permission that he was trying to give himself to tell the final story about his journey up the mountain. Was it time to ingest the tab of LSD. 
More than he was afraid to leave his reader without sufficient resolution he was afraid to let go of this form. He was afraid to let go of the form that he clung to like a life raft in this season of what he hoped to be a deeper healing in his life, a healing process which he documented and participated in. 
He resigned his mornings work, praying for direction in all matters. Praise be to the Higher Power who had taken him this far. God bless the hand who made the giant erection in the Texas Panhandle. Praise be to the father’s dark ceremonies. Praise be the hands who made the glasses which helped him to see. Praise be to Hafiz, and Rumi. Praise be to Deepak and Eckhardt. Praise to Pema and Mr Wilber. Praise to the Bruce, whose email still rested, unopened in the writer’s gmail inbox.

The writer retreated to the warmth of another shower, dear reader. Please pray for the writer.

Day 20
5:09PM
The writer was asking himself if he was ready to read Bruce’s response to the email that he’d sent yesterday. He opened up his gmail account. He planned to rip the words right off the page and paste them into his work before even reading it. He wanted to read it within the context of this story. He wanted to see the words in that way. This was his form. This was the form that he was clinging to. And so this is what he chose that day. He sensed the nervousness in his soul. The anxiety. He walked back to the bedroom and gathered the sitting pillows to place in front of the sink. He sat. He did it.
Hi Travis, 

Thanks for connecting. Sounds like you've been on quite a journey. You articulate your readiness with great clarity. You can be Flow or Goddess or whatever works for you. To hell with the frightened ones. 

Did you connect with Cody? Was the mushroom journey done on your own? 

And yes, we can resume our connection. Would you like to connect by Zoom this week? I could see you Wednesday at 1 PM (PT). Let me know if that works. 

Bruce
It seemed kind of anti-climactic honestly. The writer wondered what he’d been expecting. Heartbreak possibly? An attack? Correction? But all he got was this. Very normal. Very accepting. The writer had been discovering that relating to the world was usually a very friendly and helpful experience. But sometimes the writer found himself expecting that his father was going to jump out to scare him. But, that’s not what Bruce did. No. That’s not what he did at all. 
The writer considered responding to Bruce’s email. Form, form, and more form. He opened a “reply” window. He started to respond. He could not. Or he did not. This is how it was.
He wondered if he could continue his work.
Bruce would understand…this is the way of things…
No. That is not the way of things today. He responded to the email.
“Yes bruce. Tomorrow at 1PT if you are still available.”
Now he could continue his work. Maybe. Let’s see. Or rather now his work continued, the email not being separate from the writer’s work.

You see, dear reader, the writer was now on the continual lookout for the resolution of a story about the death and resurrection process in which he was now engaged. And he felt that if he opened the door with Bruce that it would delay the ending of this story yet another day. He realized that at some point, dear reader, he would have to leave you with parts of the story incomplete. “Maybe that’s what editing is for,” the writer thought to himself. Maybe that’s what Harbor Dave is for—through-line. 
The writer had, in fact, placed the LSD tab under his tongue as he’d made his way to the shower that morning. A shower that turned into a bath, as he waited in acceptance for the medicine to have its effect.
As he sat in the tub he was aware of the fear in his body. He could feel the fear causing slight contractions in his body, slight yet consistent contractions. He sat in acceptance with the tab under his tongue for ten minutes. Then he chewed it with his teeth. Then he squashed it with his tongue. Then he swallowed it.
He sat in the tub, watching as the fear created thoughts. These were contracting thoughts. Squashing thoughts. Labeling thoughts. “now you’ve done it. Now you’re gonna be a flaming fag. You dropped that tab and now you’re gonna find yourself to be a woman when you wake up tomorrow morning. You’re gonna want to grow some breasts and have your dick cut off. Now you’re fucked.”

The thoughts were kind of like that, but not exactly. The expression of these thoughts was amplified a bit to express the sense of doom that were surrounding these thoughts. The writer waited. The writer trusted. He wondered what effects the medicine might have while he was experiencing this fear. He was preparing for the possibility of a “challenging experience” as the psychiatrists who do research in the field of psychedelic therapy call them. They are not “bad trips,” they are “challenging experiences.” The writer liked that way of thinking about it. So, the writer, with fear noticeably causing contractions in his body, prepared himself for the possibility of a challenging experience.
As the medicine began to have its effect, the man found himself wanting out of the tub and the dark bathroom. His inner wisdom was moving him into a brighter room.
He put on some light blue scrub bottoms. They reminded him of the blue paper pajamas that you get when you are admitted to an emergency room or a psychiatric unit. This did not bother him at all, in fact, it was comforting, a badge of courage even.
Next he found one of his comfortable long sleeve shirts with the two buttons that he never even bothered with (the writer did bother with them now though, just to see. It did nothing for him).
Then, Life presented him with Eileen’s book. He opened it to a random page and the world opened up to him there:
“Beloved, humanity has long been asking six basic questions in its quest to discover the truth about itself.
Who?
What?
When?
Where?
How?
Why?
“I therefore invite you to notice that you have reached a critical turning point in the unfolding of your personal story. What is changing? You have only recently begun to ask these questions in a richer, deeper way that will help you uncover the grander story of us—the whole of the living existence. This is why you are feeling inspired at this time to master your personal gifts in order to actualize your higher purpose. You are also feeling called to demonstrate, through your individual actions, the ways in which the whole of the living flow is conspiring—right now, in this perfect moment—to aid you in shining the light of life-awareness upon our shared truth

WHO is creating the story that is now being lived? We are. The Formless One Life, manifesting as the Multitudes

WHAT is the nature of the story we are presently telling? This is, at heart, the story of us—the story of love, mattering.

WHEN is this story being told? Right now. In this eternally present moment, which contains our infinite past and our own unwritten future.

WHERE is this story being told? Right here, as the universe sings itself into existence. 

HOW are we creating our story? We create endlessly anew through the regenerative power of love.

WHY are we creating this story? Because what else have we got to do with our infinite creative potential, but explore love’s eternal capacity to express itself in a multitude of ways?”



And it was in this way that the man sensed a deep connection with Life. He was making peace with a Universe that was out to help him.

He made his way to the kitchen where the light was much brighter. There was a red squirrel drinking from the pond. There were many birds and much life happening outside the west window of the great kitchen.
The writer found himself drawn to his journal. The paper. The pen. And these are the writings that came from him that day. The paper and pen drew the writers attention to the the fearful contractions in his body, evidence of trauma. As the medicine took its effect it became increasingly difficult to write, which you cannot, dear reader, see the effects of, which is partly why the writer wanted to continue this way. So that his trauma could be seen and felt on the page as he wrote, for this was the trauma that his inner wisdom was here to heal. The medicine began to have its effect:
A red squirrel
A softly glowing red squirrel
Asked the man
To consider the whole
Of things


You see
He was afraid
No, dear reader
The red squirrel was not afraid
Oh, no
The red squirrel had no form of fear
At least not the brand
With which the man was so familiar
That lingering kind
The trauma that camps in a soul

The man faced West
Toward the small pond
But he faced East in his heart
Innocent sage
Sacred Fool
The trickster
Who arranged for these things
Which the man now
With-nessed (Bayo)
Coming to pass

Yes
It was the trickster form the East
Who’d arranged the meeting with the Red sqirrel
Who now appeared
At the pond in the West Window

And it was in this way
That the man observed
His Northern one
Cleaning the stove
And heating water for a tea
That he’d have to make 
Without a bag

The Robins flittered
Around the pond
Unconcerned for the man
Who had no bag for his tea

Peace would be made today
By what means?
The man did not yet know
In detail

He was still suspicious
That he might be gripped 
By some deep violence
As peace had been made
In the Nazarene
All those years ago

And it was in this way
The tea was transformed 
Into a broth

A broth which reminded him
Of the feral cats
Outside
Making peace with the cold

The cats which the
Man now made sure
Had their bowls
At least
Filled with copious food
Which had not seemed so important to him
Only months ago

“But what is time, anyway?”
The man questioned the direction
Of his own thoughts

He fell into the aroma 
Of his warm broth
Which was born of the lack
He’d encountered
The lack of a tea bag in his cupboards

His first sip found the broth
In need of something more
Salt? Perhaps.

Just a touch of salt
And a little balsamic vinegar
Made the broth…
Well…
It made the broth…
Interesting enough for further inquiry
He chuckled at the process
Which
As he’d come to understand
Was the whole point anyway

The poet sensed the constriction of 
his fingers around the pen
as he clung to this form
for dear life
dear reader
as he acknowledge the clinging and the 
fear made manifest
in the contractions and shaking 
of his being

And it was this very fear
Which caused him
To contract and shake
That he’d come to make peace with

In the light of this day

A process which the glowing red squirrel 
And the flittering robins
Seemed to be in agreement

The aging Poet made peace
With his paper

He made peace with his broth
Which still probably needed more salt
“Salt!” 
He cried in his spirit
“Is this the true answer to so many
Culinary questions?”

He realized now to what a thin line 
It was to which he clung

And he was pleased
To see himself out there
Dangling in the wind
Which so coldly moaned its way
Through the window pane
In much the same way as the 
Flys did in the autumn
In those desperate last days of autumn
When the flies squeezed in
Through the window panes
To find a little
Warmth
By 
One’s
Stove

And it was in this way
That the man made his peace
With pen and paper
As if it was a 
Fashion
That had long faded from this earth
As if he was practicing something
Which had been left behind long ago
As the 1’s and the zeros 
Took note of all consciousness
As it were
All the consciousness as uploaded 
By its human host

And it was in this way that the 
Man made peace again
Made peace with the dystopian 
Future
In which he found himself
Living
Today

And it was in this way 
As he wrote on paper with a pen
That he made peace with the rising
Consciousness
Which was now currently 
Observed as AI, by its creators

And it was in this way
That he found himself
Observing the storyteller at work
In his own being
Reviewing his handwriting
To test for legibility

It was in this way that he 
Found himself
Fascinating that day

It was at this very moment that the man ignored what he perceived to be the coldness outside on that January morning. He crossed the threshold of the back door and walked out into the world (the world being the backyard for these purposes).

He first encountered the frozen grass, which he suspected was unbearable, which he quickly accepted as an invitation to bear. The frozen yellow blades crunched under his feet and cracked under his weight. The man had left all tools of documentation as he stepped out into the wild. No phone. No chromebook. He made peace with the living of life. He stood with his feet freezing in the morning shade of the evergreens. His body shivered with fearful joy as he stretched his arms wide open, saying ‘yes’ to whatever form was about to present itself. 

Day 21
5:07AM


The writer awoke at 4:30AM. Eli was scratching the sheets again, but not quite as desperately as the night before. The writer felt the impossible-ness of the task before him, finishing this book. He felt sure that he had gone too far, that he had tried to say too much. “Is that what it means to go past the point of no return?” wondered the writer.

He gave away the project. He felt the mountain was too high. He knew he was unable, or that he’d done something wrong. He’d gone too far. He should have ended it as he got on the turnpike to leave his mother’s house. “How can this be corrected?” he wondered as he lie in bed with Eli, the dominant cat of the residence.

He lay in bed with a headache. 

The writer reached out to his heavenly father

“Father?”
“Yes, Son.”
“Can we climb that mountain?”
“Yes son. We can climb it together. One step at a time.”

The writer drew himself a hot bath. He lingered in the warmth until Eli would not stop scratching on the door. “Okay, bud, Okay. I hear you. Okay, bud, let’s do this together,” chanted the author to his friend. He dressed in the same clothes from yesterday, light blue scrub bottoms and a comfortable white long sleeve.

The writer made his way to the kitchen. He opened his bible to a random page, which his mother had recently reminded him to do. He found Psalm 20 there.

Psalm 20

For the pure and shining one
For the end times, by King David

In your day of danger may the lord
Answer and deliver you

May the name of the God of Jacob 
Set you safely on high

May supernatural help be sent
From his sanctuary

May he support you from Zion’s fortress

May he remember every gift you have given him

And celebrate every sacrafice of love
You have shown him

Pause in his presence (Selah)

The writer reread the excerpt from Eileen’s book that had so deeply encouraged him yesterday. “The Universe is out to help me?” the dying author reminded himself.

The writer fed the feral cats who made peace with the cold on his back porch. The writer, with the cat food scoop in his hand, stepped out onto the exterior porch of the great Adobe home and he addressed the South. “Please South, Wild-one, he who was before language. He who is untamable and mostly unknowable to me. Please be with me today. Show me your wisdom. I need your help great mysterious one.”

The writer addressed the West. “My beloved muse! Please speak through me today. I need your insight. I need your wisdom. I need your passion. Come! Be my passion. Come! Inhabit this being. Rise up from within me. You, the individual. The one who questions. The one who explores the darkness. Come inhabit this vessel today.

The writer addressed the North. “Great Mother, the One who makes me oatmeal with green apples and cinnamon and nutmeg and honey! Thank you great mother for caring for me so deeply. Thank you for receiveing me back into your soil once I have died. Thank you for birthing me again. Thank you for integrating my trauma into your deep and loving fabric of being. I give you thanks, Great Mother. 

The writer addressed the East. “Ahhhh East! You tricky little devil! You always get me right where I need to be with your little tricks. You brought me into the depths of hell with your meaninglessness meditation just to show me that there is great meaning flowing from within. You, my sacred fool, the one who just keeps loving and giving and offering yourself. Thank you for your wisdom, innocent one, the Universal Sage all together. You have given me so much! Be with me today. Speak through me!

The writer then turned in a circle again, addressing each and all the cardinal directions. “All of you! Come into this being. I have an impossible task of completion today. I am to resolve the unresolvable. I pray to you all. Come inhabit this willing vessel!

In the Spirit of circling back. In the spirit of the great serpent who was emerging in this world, in the spirit of spiral dynamics, in the Spirit of the Christ, the man reestablished his seat in the bathroom where this journey had started. He retrieved the half-crocheted blanket from the floor of his closet. He placed the milk carton with the pink towel over it as a desk in the bathroom. 

The writer started a mug of coffee in the Keurig. 

He referred to A course in miracles, Lesson 19: “I am not alone in experiencing the effects of my thoughts.”

 The writer flavored his coffee with some hazelnut creamer.

The writer made his way to the bathroom and took a tylenol with his first warm swig of coffee.

The writer sat in the small bathroom on the half-crocheted blanket that would never cover his family. There were books around him on the floor. He noticed that Eli had torn up some carpet.

He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as Thich Nhat Hanh had instructed him.

He called on his Pema.

The writer sat, waiting for the next direction. Or non-direction, as the case may be. The crossroads. The non-path. He waited for that which was beyond the fork in the road.


Yesterday, after he’d taken the medicine. After he’d set himself free of the burden of real-time documentation. In the back yard, after he’d crunched the frozen grass with his bare feet. After a great chilling rush passed through his body. There was a ceremony that began. 

The man approached the small bridge that crossed a dry man-made stream bed. It was the little stream that fed the pond where the squirrels and the robins drank.

He sat on the warm black bridge as it had been covered with some kind of protective black rubber covering. As he came to a seated position, he noticed that there was bird shit on the bridge. He became curious about the bird shit. At first glance it looked terrifying to him, something that he did not want to look too closely at. But he allowed himself to get real close to it. He saw the partially digested seeds. He saw a white mucous which enveloped the green chalky meat of the shit. There was a ring of moisture around the shit that was evaporating before the man’s eyes in waves of heat-movement.  He got closer and closer to the shit. 

He remembered what he’d written on the first page of his ACIM. His little mark of wisdom that he’d left there for himself and whoever would read the book in the future. “Even the most nutritious of foods eventually becomes excrement.” Selah

What once looked good to eat. What once fed us. What once was delicious, eventually passes through our bodies and becomes shit.

“Yes, thought the man sitting on the bridge. How we deal with shit is most important!”

His boss, Fheb had once told him about how when she grew up in the Philippines they did not have toilet paper. She described in detail how they dealt with their shit with bear hands and a bowl of soapy water.

How did the Christ deal with his excrement? How did Hafiz and Rumi deal with their excrement. 

The writer had special wipes with which he could deeply clean his sphincter after a good shit. These men had no wipes. People in the past must have been much more deeply in touch with their excrement. Surely, this little thing must be a big deal. How do we work with our shit? How do I clean my ass once the body has purged the food that was once good to eat. How do I invite this food into my body for nourishment and how do I purge that which is no longer desirable.

In this was the heart of spiral dynamics, realized the writer as he sat looking at the bird shit on the bridge. We embrace form. The form passes through us. The form appears to become useless (or at least we become aware of our need for different form). We leave the form behind. The excrement sings back into the soil to provide nutrients for mother earth. We transcend, finding other forms (other food. Manna fresh from heaven every day). And so our consciousness deepens. 

And so it came to pass that the writer saw the great serpent arising as he meditated on the shit.

But, dear reader, The excrement meditation was not over. No. There was more to come.

The writer allowed himself to pass into pure experience. He became willing to leave the narrative behind. He was no longer trying to record all of his thoughts for later writiing. He allowed the writer to die. And in the death of this author, the middle-aged-man became a cat, sitting on the warm black bridge. The cat felt the sun on his body and that is all he knew. 

The cat became curious about that which was before him. He stepped off the bridge and found the golden grass at his feet. 

He saw another animals excrement lying there in the grass. He lowered his face toward the excrement and inhaled deeply. The writer, who was still embedded in this cat noted what it was like to experience the world this way. There was a deep wisdom in the smell of this shit. It smelled of experience. It smelled of a bird that was caught and killed and digested. It smelled of the earth to which it was sinking back into. The cat returned to the smell many times over the course of a timeless moment. As many times as was necessary before the cat’s curiosity was drawn elsewhere.

The presence of the cat faded and the middle-aged-man became more present. The man was aware of a simplicity of presence. He was aware of the warmth of the sun on his body. He was aware of the trauma in his body. He was aware of an energy in him that needed to be released. He instinctively came as close to the earth as possible. He buried his face in the grass and inhaled deeply. The fragrance invited the man deeper and deeper in.

The man remembered how at the first treatment center that he’d visited he’d discovered that he had a severe allergy to Junipers. They were all over the grounds at the treatment center in Santa Fe. And it was in this way that the man dealt with his trauma, with the worst allergies of his entire life. The Chef, a round and kind man, saw his suffering and smuggled him in some nose spray that finally brought some relief. Praise to the Great Chef at the life healing center!

But the winter grass did not have that effect on the man today. No, quite the opposite. The brown grass, that life form which had passed away but was still present in the husk of itself, invited the man deeper and deeper in. It was in this way that the man felt himself disappearing in a way that he never had before. It was in this way that many dreams and visions began to pass through the man. Dreams and visions which had a life of their own.

As he was at this lowest point, having returned to the grass and the soil which supports it, The man sensed the mother earth. She was inviting him to let his trauma return to the soil. The man’s body trembled and quivered. He cried very deep cries as he felt himself embraced by his deep and kind mother. 

One of the statues of the christ that he’d seen yesterday at the crucifixion rest stop came to him. It was Christ as he lay prone on the ground, the cross seeming to crush him. The man felt this great crushing. The man understood the cross to be all the form that the man had ever participated in. His marriage. His jobs. The raising of his children. His philosophies and religions. His exercise. His 12 step program. All the forms were the cross. All of his experience had led him to this great death.

The man sensed the trauma that life had so perfectly presented him with so that he could experience this death, so that he could be resurrected. And he could now sense that trauma passing from his body into his mother. The mother who was very present and ready to receive her son. 

Words that his own mother had spoken to him now rung in his ears, “This is just what mother’s do,” she had said to him recently. Praise be the one who first showed him the great turning in the folding of the blueberries into the sweet batter!

The man wept in his agony as he felt his trauma gradually leaving his body and sinking into the soil. All of his experience returning to the earth, just as the excrement (which was close by somewhere around here) was also being returned. Praise be to the great cat who shits!

As the trauma left his body he became more a part of the grass. He became the warmth of the sun as it held his body. The anguish and the joy were now one. There was no separation between the two. He was one now with all he’d ever known. He was the Christ. He was the one who crucfied the Christ. 

And so it came to pass that many visions came to the man that day as he lay there in the refuge that the man found himself in. Many visions that cannot be spoken of now. Many secret visions that the writer now understood he may be able to explain in the future. But cannot be spoken of in detail today.

He saw his daughter, Emma Kate, pure healing. He saw a great and unspeakable serpent rising that was Great Spiral, but which all of us would have no choice but to fear.

He understood that the main purpose right now was to allow another story to be born. It was time for the Christ Daughter to arise, she who would bring pure healing. It was time to embed another story in humanity. A new story of the rising Christ. A story that could live in the heart of man  despite a great falling away. A story that could become myth. A kernel that could survive a great burning. He saw the serpent arising and it was disturbing to him. He could hardly watch the shapes. He could hardly believe that this was okay to witness. He knew that his daughter would understand better than he. He knew that she would be the Christ Daughter, and he knew that she would appear blasphemous to those who were in charge, just as the Nazarene was a blasphemer to the Pharisees and sadducces. 

He saw the shapes and forms that would terrify those who held on to their own righteousness. And he saw a new being born in himself. A serpent being who basked on the shores.

The middle-aged-man gave birth that day, panting in the grass. The man embodied the mother of his children. He remembered the smells and sights of child birth, the shit that came before the child. The absolute inescapable primal nature of natural child birth, which the mother of his chidren had endured three times. But now her experience became his some how. And she and he were once again birthing a child. They were bringing this Christ daughter into the world. They were making her a nest. They were together.

There was a pool of saliva that had now accumulated in the grass under the mans panting mouth. It was slick and snotty like a vagina became with oral sex. It was also like the birth canal. The earth became all the love that the man had ever made. He felt the earth as female. He became the female of the earth. He was also the man who pleased the female with his face pressed into her sweet vagina. And in this way the man gave birth and made love to the earth. And in this way there was a new species of serpent people who were born fresh on the beaches of some far away island. And this blasphemous brood needed to be fed. The father of this brood now witnessed his children. The children who could never be accepted into the forms that had helped to birth them. He only knew that his children needed to be provided for. And he waited there with his children’s hearts in his heart, waiting for the provision of a Universe that was out to help him.

The man became aware of his position in the grass. He longed to stay this low forever. He longed to live life from this position in the grass. There was also a part of him that knew he would leave this experience. He prayed, “please let me stay here. Please let me stay.”

He remembered a game that he and his children used to play called the “stay game.” The children would sit in his lap. The man would hug his children. The man would allow his children to get up and start to walk away. Then he would pull them back into his arms and say “stay! Stay!” He realized that in this game there had been much wisdom. For it was deconstructing the game that the forms of this world try to do to us. The fundamentalist practice of religion tries to keep us. It keeps pulling us back, saying “Stay! Stay! In fact you MUST stay if you ever want to go to heaven. If you don’t want to go to hell. STAY!”

The man understood this behavior to be the antichrist. For it was Christ who showed us to walk away from the form. And now there was a new form to be born. A new story was being born in humanity. The Jesus story was enough to get us here, but now there would be a new One born. A story that could germinate in the hearts of the humn-beings even if the internet shut down. A story that would have the power to live in the hearts of a humanity who was suffering a great leveling. A story that would live and grow in the hearts of those who would pass through the great leveling when the macro ego of a species would experience the death that must be suffered if they were to move into a deeper consciousness. There would be great terror and great suffering and much loss. 

And so it was that the man was on his belly, just as the serpent in the garden had been. The man looked into the serpent forms as much as he could bear. He became the Serpent. He stayed low for as long as was possible. He knew he would not be able to remain in the actual grass forever, but he prayed that somehow he could live his life from this spot. He stimulated the great clitoris of the earth who was more than a mother now. She was his lover and he was his.

The great mother also arose in the man. And as the sun shone down on him he awoke with this feminine spirit as if to a new morning. The man felt no need to appropriate the images of women or the actions of women. He asked the great mother to be with him. He asked to understood what it meant to be woman. To allow the spirit of woman to dwell in him. He asked for this to arise in a gentle and natural way in which he could understand over time. He allowed this to be. He allowed the great serpent whom he had resisted twenty five years ago to take up residence in his being.

He lingered in this space for as long as was possible. He realized that this great lingering was the woman who had risen within him. He realized that, as a man, he had assumed so many times that it was time to move on before it was really time. He realized how many times man had tried to teach something that he knew not. He realized the great folly of man. He understood that the days ahead would require the patience of woman. Man would need to allow this spirit of woman to arise in himself and in the world if humanity was to nurture these serpent children into maturity. 

It was in this way that the man lingered in the fuckable presence of the earth for as long as he could. He saw himself in the refuge of this great backyard in this great home. He welcomed life to be lived through him in this place. He asked that he be able to live life like this, deeply embedded in the soil. He gave himself to this Great Being that was rising in him. He said yes to some kind of stewardship that he did not yet understand. He gave his life for his daughter and he also agreed to nurture this spirit of woman in himself. He agreed to whatever form his life would take, even if it did mean becoming some kind of flaming mother figure. He could not know the outcome of these events. He could not know what kind of form he may take as he allowed the great kundalini serpent to unwind in him.

The man rose from the grass as what seemed to be the greatest joke of all time was told to him. “This is what all your life experience has qualified you for, my son. You are now qualified to sit with shit and smell the shit and know the shit. You are now qualified to perform oral sex on the earth and to stimulate her great clitoris. You are now qualified to live in this most perfectly lowly place.” The man felt no humiliation in his place in the earth. The man felt only perfect love. The man was one with the soil. This was the prayer that he’d prayed when he left his job. “I’m sowing myself back into the soil,” he’d told Dan. “I am dropping my nets to follow the Christ.”

It was in this way that the man laughed uproarisly. As he rasied his head from the Grass.

It was then that the middle-aged-man began to acquaint himself more intimately with the Cardinal directions and the spirits that inhabited them.

He began with a short moment with the West. Purple berries hung on the bra…..

The writer paused…There was still much of a mountain to climb. Dear reader, pray for the writers willingness. Pray for the death of the author so that you may live. 

Eli the cat came into the bathroom. The cat’s presence spoke to him of Elisha and Elijah, the prophets of old. Elisha, as he was aging, passed down a double portion of his annointing to his spiritual son, Elijah. This story had been passed on to the middle-aged-man by his mentor Tim, from Oklahoma City. Toward the end of their meeting, the middle-aged-man asked Tim to sign his new bible. The writer turned to the front page of the bible to revisit the day.


To Travis

My favorite example of a Son and incredible human being! It is an honor to know you.

Blessings
Timothy

The writer was then reminded of the email that he’d received from his earthly father just the day before. He had only read the subject line which read, “the problem with you according to him.” The writer considered the possibility of opening the email and pasting it in this work. “Is this the direction? Do I allow my suffering father’s voice to come into this work?” The prayer of the boy who’d asked, “Please don’t make me go back. I don’t want to go back,” came to the man’s memory. Please pray, dear reader, that the correct choice will be made. Does the writer subject himself to the voice of his father again? Does the writer open that email up and reads the words of a suffering and accusational father? Do the father’s words have the power to traumatize this son again? Does the son, once again return to this abuser for some greater purpose? 

“I am the son who prays for his father,” proclaimed the middle-aged-man to the Oneness. The son chose not to read his father’s words. For he knew everything that his father would say. He knew now that the father spoke of love, but delivered abuse. He knew that it was the most honorable thing he could do for himself, dear reader, and for you, to omit his  father’s words. The father’s words were irrelevant now to the middle-aged-man. The father’s words were like the “new” war that was about to begin in the middle-east. It was out of his control. The men who chose to go to war. The men who decided to perpetuate the suffering. The men who insisted on busting each other’s balls. The men who were committed to the conquest. The men who were destroying the world. He blessed these men with all of his heart. These men were suffering deeply as they committed and recommitted themselves to their desperate and angry trauma. These men were unable to leave behind their trauma. The middle-aged-man however had been given the gift of healing, and he felt no obligation to allow the words of one to enter his heart whose only intention was to tear him down. He had no intention of returning to his abuser today. He had no intention of allowing those men who chose death to minister to him as he recovered in this sanctuary today. The man did not know where the Spirit may lead him tomorrow. But, he felt somewhat certain that his heavenly father had told him that he was not obligated to ever return to the father who blames his children for his own misery. 

He was the son who prayed for his father. And those prayers were flowing even now. “Restoration and healing, father. Thank you for all the gifts you gave me. Thank you for every little shred of true love that passed through you. Thank you for the vehicles. Thank you Father. I pray that you will be held by your Father in heaven. I pray that you will awaken to the true nature of reality in a way that is written just for you. I pray the deepest healing and love for you. But I will not read your letter today. No. I will not return to my abuser today. I will not return to that out of control ego that shames himself and his children. That out of control ego which is the devil. I will not return to your shaming voice today. I pray that your suffering and anguish will lead you straight into the arms of a creative and loving and intelligent Universe who is out to help you.”

And so it came to pass that the man remembered an email exchange he’d had with his brother as he returned from Oklahoma City.

You, me, and dad should just have some kind of a powwow or something and really spell out the main priorities of our relationship.  Just say goodbye to all the stupid piddly shit that makes us bicker and bitch....and just say FUCk THAT SHIT!  We are family and by god we are just gonna fucking love each other for who we are. However.....I think we should still be able to break each other's ball from time to time....because that's just fun.

Not right now my brother. I'm not interested in anything like that right now. I'm not interested in returning to any of that today. I'm not interested in having my balls busted by anyone. Ballbusting is not my path. And I'm not interested in relationships where ballbusting is expected or accepted. I've got this picture in my head that dad expressed to me so very clearly years and years ago of his father literally kicking him in the balls. And ballbusting is just that to me, the continuation of trauma and abuse. I've had plenty of that. I have plenty of ballbusting that I've done to myself.

I'm here for you in gentleness. I'm here for you in kindness. I'm here for you in a spirit of nurturing and generosity and love. This is what I hope for my relationship with you. So please, if you wish, approach me in this way and I will return in kind.

I believe that this is our Birthright. I believe that this is our inheritance. I believe that this is the spirit that our father could never share with us.

I am immensely grateful for all the love that my father ever showed me, for all the gifts that he ever gave me. But I think you understand... no. I know you understand the effects of all the abuse, all trauma that we have taken into our beings.

And so it is in this way that I decline today the idea of a meeting. It is in this way that I have given myself permission to never return to that home. It is in this way that I have given myself permission to never again submit myself to the rageful ball busting that I find still in my father.

I have found the kinder and gentler father abiding deep within my own being. And it is this being that I offer to you today.

I wish you all the best always. I bless you my brother as you walk into your own healing. I say yes to any interaction between us which nurtures loving kindness.

My last interaction with Dad days ago was beautifully devastating

I allowed it to deconstruct me. It showed me my illness in returning to my abuser over and over again.


And so it came to pass that the writer left that trauma behind. He opened his Hafiz book translated by Ladinsky

She Responded

The bird’s favorite songs 
you do not hear

For their most flamboyant music takes place
When their wings are stretched
Above the trees

And they are smoking the opium
Of pure freedom

It is healthy for the prisoner
To have faith

That one day he will again move about
Wherever he wants,
Feel the wondrous gift of life—
Less structured

Find all wounds, debts stamped cancelled
Paid.

I once asked a bird,
“How is it that you fly in this gravity
Of darkness?”

She responded,

“Love lifts, 
Me.”

In this poem the writer sensed his oneness with the Universe that was out to help him.

And so it came to pass that the writer finally felt the release to tell the final story of the mountain.

“Father?”
“Yes, Son?”
“Can we climb that mountain?”
“Yes son, we can try. Let’s do it together, one step at a time.”

Day 21
7:56AM

The writer retrieved a frozen enchilada dinner from the freezer. The writer peirced the wrapper and placed the dinner in the microwave on high for four and a half minutes.

The writer moved his station to the great marble island in the kitchen. He faced North into the large mirror. He faced North in acknowledgement of the nurturing one. The one who is redeemed. The one who speaks of redemption. The great mother who received us into her soil. The one who absorbs our trauma because, “That’s just what mother’s do.”

The microwave beeped three times, announcing the readiness of the meal. Thanks be to God for the food we are about to receive. Dear reader, please help me find my way now. Pray again for my death that you may live. Pray for your own restoration. Pray for you own wholeness as I pray for you now.

“God, I pray for the reader now. I pray for the ones who have accompanied me this far in our journey. I pray for a deep recovery and a healing. For surely anyone who has read this far into the blasphemy is also leaving their self behind. Surely anyone who has read this far is also experiencing the great turning. Yes, dear reader, You are with me and I am with you. 

Now Please join me as I tell the final story of my journey. Please accompany me on this journey. I pray that my journey has somehow become the Universal story. For the climbing of the mountain, as I was informed by Harbor Dave is a universal story. 


As the middle-aged-man left the blessed cabin in the Lincoln national forest that day he gave his travels to the Great Spirit. He blessed the Owl Woman. He blessed the Universal Stan (the one who brings us all together). The gravel crunched under the tires of the little blue toyota with the severely cracked windshield that his daughther had so perfectly destroyed in a seizure.

The man stopped to have a visit with the two burly bulls, the orange and the black. The man communed with the Christ in the bulls. He had given himself to the Christ in the turning around of his car. He had given himself to the spirit of Christ that he found in his curiosity.

The man gave himself to this great turning around. He gave himself to the willingnes that was arising from within. It was in this way that he found himself under a cliff face yelling in the direction of God, “Make me a disciple! Empower me to follow! Make me a disciple! Empower me to follow.” The middle-aged man turned in every direction in supplication. 

It was in this way that he found himself singing a song that he’d composed that was simply the contents of the gospel of Luke Chapter 14


 Great Crowds of people
Were following Jesus
He turned around and he said to them
If you want to be my follower 
You’ve got to love me more than anything else. 

You’ve got to love me more
Than your mother and father
You’ve got to love me more than your child and your wife
You’ve got to love me more than you brother’s and sisters
Yes even more than you love your own life

He sang this song as he invited God to empower him to follow. A great heart memory of sonship came back to the man. It was a memory that had been deposited in his body but had been latent. He felt the sense memory returning. He felt what it was like to be held. To be owned by a Universal God that he experienced as inside his being in contrast to a God who is only outside. He felt this in his being. It was more than a belief. It was an experience of sonship in the body.

Form was integrating for him now. He prayed to the Father. “Father, empower me to follow. Make me a disciple.”

He got back in the car and travelled down the road until he came to a mountain stream. He stopped his car there beside the road. He exited the car and walked down the sloping embankment. He traversed the sturdy barbed wire fence. He came to the cold stream on his knees. He splashed the cold water on his face. “This place in the stream where I’ve come to is just deep enough to be immersed in.” the man thought to himself the unthinkable.

It was forty degrees outside. An occasional vehicle passed on the highway as the man sat by the stream considering the possibility of this next baptism. He was creating ceremonies for himself over and over again now. He was in the process of saying yes to another ceremony that was rooted in tradition but which contained the novelty of the expression of his Universal, but individual being in this moment.

The man considered the baptism but he dismissed it. He climbed the barbed wire fence, made his way back up the small embankment, got back in his car, started the engine and drove down the road. And in his willingness to walk away from an idea that was possibly inert or inane (possibly even ascetic in nature), he found another willingness. He became curious about the stream. He became curious about that space in the stream that was just deep enough to immerse a human body. He pulled his car over on the side of the road. He began to plan the logisitics of it. How he would get in the stream with only his underwear, while still wearing his clothes down there to climb the barbed wire fence. It was simple enough, but the practicalities seemed very important and he sat there for some time thinking about it until finally he knew that he wanted to do it. He did not feel that he was being ordered to do it. But he wanted to pray a prayer. He wanted to somehow make this body an offering. He wanted to say yes in a significant way to this discipleship. “Father, empower me to follow. Empower me to be a disciple.” These words would rarely stop flowing from the man’s mouth during this whole process, “Father, empower me to follow. Empower me to be a disciple,” he chanted as he walked himself through the baptism process, the ceremony that was being born in his heart.

The man turned the car around and returned to the same spot in the stream that he had driven away from just minutes ago. He descended the slope. He climbed the barbed wire. He stood for a moment, hoping that a car would not pass. He committed himself to this prayer. He committed himself to this ceremony that was being born of his own Being. He committed himself to this ceremony which was born so long ago and that was now being integrated into this man’s life.

He kicked off his shoes (he had already removed his socks in preaparation). He took off his shirt. It fell by his feet. He took off his favorite pants (the ones that he would find on Christmas day which still lie ahead of him). He removed his glasses and placed them in a shoe. He was now wearing only a a pair of black underwear. 

He quickly stepped into the cold cold water and kneeled as the water, for a brief moment rushed over his head, a moment that still lives deeply now in the writer’s being as the story is retold (the effect of ceremony that is born from a heart that is willing to participate in meaningful ceremony and a living Spirit supporting the efforts)

He came out of the water quickly, still chanting “Father, make me a disciple. Empower me to follow. Empower me to follow. Empower me to follow.” As he reached for his clothing he heard a car approaching. “Ahhhh!” Thought the man. “No! No!” He quickly picked up his clothes and ran for the cover of the nearest tree. It was too late. The car was already upon him as he was running to the tree, soaked underwear and hair. 

He stopped. He dressed as quickly as possible, hoping that the car would not turn around to investigate. Hoping that the people in the car were not near as curious as he was that day! He put on his clothing and ran away. It was not until he had traveled fifty feet that he realized that he had somehow left his glasses by the tree. He returned to the area carefully, trying to avoid a great crushing of the powerful tool that allowed him to see well enough to drive. He stepped softly. There they were, his glasses. He placed them on his face. He returned to the barbed wire. He climbed the barbed wire. He climbed the gentle embankment. He got in the car. He turned the ignition. The car started. He turned the heater on high. He checked his rearview mirror. He merged the little blue toyota onto the two lane mountain highway. He continued his chanting, “Empower me to follow, Make me a disciple, empower me to follow.”

It was in this way that the man found himself, once again, travelling down the road, a passenger in the little blue Toyota.

The man stopped a little ways up the road. Undressed. He changed his soaking underwear in the shelter of the blue car. He dried his hair with a shirt. And he continued his journey.

This is when he came to a mountain. The writer is not now aware of the qualifications for a mound of rock and dirt to be called a mountain. And how tall this mound of rock and dirt actually was is not recorded in any literal history. But the mound of rock and dirt seemed large enough, and daunting enough to earn the title of “mountain” in the mans heart that day. The mountain towered over the man as he passed under it on the ribbon of a road beneath its majesty. 

The man stopped the car. He looked up at the mountain. And this is when it happened. This is when the dialogue began.

“Father?”

This is where the space appeared to the man to be charged with presence. This is when the Son knew that he was heard. The Son did not need to hear the Father in order to know that the father was there. The presence of the Father was in the Son. And this is when the man spoke to the Son with the voice of the Father. He and the Father were one now.

“Yes, Son?”answered the Father. And the two of them, who were now one, stood there, looking up at the mountain. The rocks. The vegetation. The ups and the downs of it. The barbed wire fence that attempted to separate the road from the mountain.

“Father? Can I climb that mountain?”

And again. The presence that came with the silence. The presence and confidence that came with Spirit. The presence and the confidence that the young man had left behind so many years ago as he had walked away from his form. The resentments had come so strongly as the abused young man was condemned to replaying the critical voice of his earthly father. That presence that he had known so briefly before he gave himself away to something else was restored unto him. Here was the joy of his salvation. Here was the dialogue. The dialogue that made life, in this moment, very much worth living.

The father replied.
“Yes son. You can try. Just take it one step at a time. Let’s do it together.”

The man and his father walked toward the mountain together. They climbed the barbed wire fence, the father giving practical advice sometimes, helping his son to avoid injury.

“Okay, Son. Watch this fence. Be careful. I don’t want you to get hurt.”

“Thank you, Father. I am so glad to be here with you today. I am so glad to be your son. I feel safe when I am with you, Father.”


“Yes, Son I am very glad to be here with you too. Now, let’s just take this one step at a time, and don’t forget to stop and rest when you need to.”

“Yes, Father. Thank you. I will not forget.”

“Now watch your step here, this rock looks a little loose.”

And so their dialogue continued in this way as they made their way up the mountain one step at a time.

“This mountain is much more difficult to climb than I imagined, Father.”

“Yes, son, this is no easy task. Do you need to rest?”

“Yes Father, let us sit together here on this ridge and rest.”

As the Father and Son sat down the Son discovered a great treasure. It was a rock in which was embedded the spiral fossil of some living being that had breathed here on this planet long ago, perhaps when all of this was covered in a great sea. The fossil appeared to the son as the great serpent, the one who spirals into the infinite multiverse. The son was much amazed.

“Oh wow, Father. This is really cool. I like it so much. It speaks to me so deeply. I love being with you Father. I sense your presence in this rock, in this fossil. I sense the presence of the Mother all around me too. I sense the Christ Being in all that I see.”

“Yes son. We are all here. Just like Jung talked about. The ancient archetypes made manifest in the human consciousness and witnessed in our own consciousness.”

“Yes, Father. I like it when you speak like that. You voice fills me with deep love and respect for this mountain.”

“Son?”

The son left a space in order to feel the father’s presence. The man waited for the voice of the Father to arise from within his being. It did.”

“Yes, Father.”

More space arose from the eternal Being that is present in all of creation.

“My son, look out into this valley before you.” They were now half way up the mountain. “Do you see how everything is?”

The son looked out upon the valley from this vantage point. He breathed in the presence of all that he could see. The ribbon of road below him. The curving nature of the land forms. The scrub brush and the the stream by the road in which he’d been baptized. It was all there, just as it was. It needed to be nothing more for the son in that moment. He saw it, and it was good. It was good to see in the presence of his Father.

“Yes, Father. I see it all. I feel it all. I somehow know it all.”

“This all appears to be static. It appears now to you to be still. But all of this is not near as solid as it appears to you. Everything. Every bit of what you see is, right now in this very moment, in a state of motion, in a dynamic state. It is this change that we embrace. As we embrace this seemingly invisible change, as we embrace the death of each moment and the birth of the new moment, we put an end to needless suffering in our beings, and then we begin to teach the world to do the same. We are all teaching, Son. And with our teaching we are either reinforcing the illusion of fear, or we are opening our own eyes to the true nature of reality, which is this creative, intelligent, and loving evolution of conscious love. This is the meaning of the Cosmic Christ. The Universal Christ. The one who understood to fall in the ground and die, to be born again to the next moment.”

“Yes, Father. I think I understand. I want to know this in my heart. Please hold me here until I understand.”

“You’re mother will teach you more about how to be held by the earth. She will show you in the coming days how to sink into the soil. She will show you how to wait. For it is her spirit who will guide you into the coming world. It is her spirit which may deliver you from the Ego created suffering that man has willingly released in this planet. Do not worry, my Son. Everything is just as it should be. But, the great Turning must come for the consciousness of humanity to evolve into that of the Christ. Another story must be told of the Christ Daughter. The matriarchal line must come to be recognized. You will allow your feminine spirit to arise from within.”

“Yes, Father. Thank you for sharing this with me.”

The Son sat in the presence of the Father. He sat in the presence of the fossil which showed him the kundalini serpent. A picture of the great serpent who was wound at the base of the spine of humanity. This universal feminine that would arise as the distress call had been sent out from our dear princess, Leia. The heroine that was so easy to overlook as a young man who only knows the potential of Luke. The heroine who makes the call and awaits a power greater than herself to be lived through her. A power that surrenders. A power who is penetrated. A power who is impregnated. A nurturing power. A royal power that holds the boys together. That one who the boys think is in need of rescuing, but who is really rescuing them. That one who was now arising within the man who was climbing the mountain.

Half way up the mountain, where the Father had revealed these secrets to the son, The father and the son erected a monument made of stones. They placed the fossil stone on top of the altar.

“Look here,” said the father.

The Son looked where the father showed him. There was a great bird feather on the ground.

“Pick up that feather and hold it above you head, son. It will carry you to the top of this mountain.”

“The Son did as he was directed and he found great joy as he felt himself carried up the mountain by the strength of the Universal Christ found in the feather.

And in this way the father and son continued their journey up the mountain that morning. They climbed. They rested. The father helped the son pace himself. They moved together at the speed of life, no slower no faster. There was no rush that day, for the son had already dropped his nets to follow the Christ that had won his heart so many years ago. And because the son had dropped his nets he was here with his father today. Because the son had dropped his nets he was now able to participate in this ceremony. This right of passage. He was able to pray the prayer of discipleship as he submersed himself in the river. He was able to hear the wisdom of a great indigenous father who showed him the secrets of the Universe on the side of the mountain that day.

They climbed. They rested. The road beneath them became smaller and smaller. The little Toyota shrank underneath their height on the side of the mountain. The Man held the feather high above his head when he got tired and he felt the strength of the Universe that was out to help him.

It was in this way that they peaked the ridge of the mountain. It was in this way that the man was greeted by every living expression of the Christ (both animate and inanimate) at the top of the mountain. The evergreens and the Yucca welcomed the Son to the top of the mountain. The rocks were his friends there too. He and the father walked the ridge line, surveying an ever changing, evlolving state of being. They passed from one moment to the next, moving at the speed of life. Holding a form for a brief moment, and then leaving that form behind, accepting the death and resurrection of each dying moment and being born again in to the next.

It was in this way that the son found himself looking deep into the branches of an evergreen. He saw a space in the branches that was a shelter. It was a shelter especially prepared for this moment in the middle-aged-man’s life. A space that he discovered because he was able to say ‘yes’ to the great turning that day. A space that he’d discovered because of the Life that he was allowing to be lived through him.

“Father,” said the son.
The sacred space arose
“Yes, Son.”
The sacred space arose again

“I’m going to build another altar at the heart of this tree in remembrance of this day.”

“That will be a good thing,” said the father. “Gather some stones and build the altar, Son.”

And the son did gather stones. And he did construct the altar of stones in the heart of the evergreen.

“You are a lovely Tree,” said the son. “I am grateful to find refuge in your branches.”

The altar being completed, the Son anchored the feather in between the stones. There in the heart of this tree, the father and son constructed this altar, and it was good. 

And the work that the writer was now in the process of completing was also an altar to the resurrection that the Son had experienced. And the pages of this story lay in the Son’s heart as he sat there in the shelter of the lovely Evergreen, his beautiful Sister, this expression of mother earth shown to him by the Father that day.

And the Father and the Son were both tired after their long hike up the mountain. And so they leaned back into the arms of the mother, who rocked them both in her branches. There was perfect support in her branches that day. The Son gave thanks for the yellow elk skin gloves which kept his hands warm at the top of the mountain.

The Son was held deeply for this brief moment. He listened to the wind as it sang in her branches. He did not interpret he song. He only listened. He listened to the sound and he allowed it to be just that. The voice of that which was a language deeper and older than his. A voice that he would not pretend to understand or appropriate. The voice of the wind.

A song came 

“I hold in high regard the wind
But the wind won’t ever be held
Although I’ve cried and tried again
You know the wind won’t ever be held”

And then the moment passed. The form passed. The Father and Son allowed the death of this moment. They allowed, together, the next moment to be born. They did not linger past the time. They were moving at the speed of life.

The father and the Son made their way down the mountain after they said goodbye to the great Yucca who rested at the top of the mountain.

“Watch your step, Son. There’s a lot of potential energy that you’ve stored up in the climbing of this mountain.”

“Yes, Father. I will. I will take my time, Father.”

The middle-aged-man thought of his earthly son and all the backpacking adentures that they’d been on together. He thought of his ginger boy. Joseph Christopher, “The one who increases the light bearer.”

The father and son descended the mountain, mostly in dialogue about the proper route and steps to be taken on the way down. They climbed the barbed wire fence. They crossed the ribbon of a road. They clicked the car’s remote. The little car beeped its welcome. They started the engine. They checked the rearview mirror. They continued their journey.

The writer who now stood at the north facing mirror in the great kitchen paused. He drew another bath, knowing that he was not alone on this journey. He imagined the feather. He held it high over his head. He wondered if the feather still stood in the altar that he’d erected over three weeks ago on that unnamable pile of rocks and stone, that mountain.

Day 21
10:20AM

The middle-aged-man slipped into the warming waters of yet another bath. As he rested there in preparation for the last steps of this story, he recalled those backpacking treks up to higher than eleven-thousand feet with his only son.

The first time they went, the son was only eleven years old. The middle-aged-man understood that it would be impossible for him to communicate to his son the challenges that lie ahead, for those challenges can only be understood once they are faced. However, the father attempted to alert his son to what it might feel like to be faced with ones own limitations as they ventured into the wildness of a mountain.

The middle-aged-man remembered that he had underestimated the immensity of a mountain once. He’d found himself lost with a group of people. Their descent was hampered by a ravine and a steep cliff. The ventured on and found themselves on a steep grade with crumbling rocks as the sun was quickly going down. They all made it down safely, but the man never forgot that experieince. He felt as if the group of day-hikers were being swallowed whole by and unforgiving entity. He was being taught a lesson that day by the wild-indigenous one.

And so it was with this wisdom in his heart that the man attempted to help his son to understand the seriousness of placing themselves in the wild. 

The mountain challenged the man’s eleven year old boy that day as they found themselves half way up the mountain. The son had lost his fishing pole and creel. The son was tired. He was overwhelmed by the enormity of the journey as he carried his pack on his back. The son collapsed in frustration in tears. The father watched. The father breathed. The father waited.

“Son,” said the father. “We are up on this mountain together. And there is no one to come and get us. Our phones do not work here. We must make a decision for ourselves. If your pack is too heavy and you cannot go on, we could leave your pack here and retreat down the mountain. Or, if you sit for a minute and breathe, we could carry on. We could pass the point of no return together. We could carry our packs up this incline, make our camp, start a fire, and eat some dinner together, having climbed this mountain.”

The son looked up at his father.

The son did not want to leave his pack and climb down the mountain.

The son knew the only path for him was up.

And so it came to pass that the father and the son continued their adventure that day, together. They made their camp. They arrived at their destination. They erected their shelter. They lit the fire. They cooked their meal. They slept close to one another in their two man tent, the father and his eleven year old son.

A song was born from their trips to the mountains:

“We were held by the mother of the mountain
As we made our way back down
With the root under foot
And the river down below
And the clouds making thunderin’ sounds”

And it was in this way that the writer found himself facing North, sitting in the great living room with the saltillo tile and the twenty foot vaulted ceiling in the home that he did not own. He sat in the home where he felt very comfortable in but had no capital investment. He sat there with meager financial prospects and a diminishing bank account. 

He sat there in the great living room facing North with great hope in his capacity to be found in this present moment. He sat at the end of the construction of this great scaffolding that he’d been constructing for the last twenty-one days. He sat there as Eli meowed and peeked out the window to his West. The middle-aged-man sat there without any obligation to listen to a voice which reinforced the great illusion of fear. He sat there with a great commitment to Love in his heart. With a great commitment to the death of this moment, and the resurrection of the next.

The middle-aged-man sat there in the great living room with you in his heart, dear reader. He sat there in the presence of all the ancestors who had come before him. He sat in the presence of the great singularity. In the presence of the great I AM. He sat in the presence of Lucy the austrolopithecus, an Eve of us all who’d risen up out of the heart of Africa. He sat in the presence of all that had arisen and become this consciousness that he was now experiencing. He sat in acknowledgement of the very presence of God which he now contacted in his own being. He sat in a moment that was greatly void of fear. The windchime chimed. A freight train whistled. Eli sat on the arm of the couch, peering out the window as the grey feral cat passed by. He sat in satisfaction of the form that he’d clung to for the last twenty one days. These words.

He prayed that we would all be directed back to the mother from which we arose. He prayed that we would answer the call of the great mother earth who wanted to integrate our suffering. He prayed for his people as the great serpent was arising, she who would consume us, she who would shit us back out in the great re-membering, as the human race found itself surrendering to this undeniable process of death and resurrection, the process which was first shown to us. The process which was now finding another story which would somehow be made manifest in a daughter, his daughter, yes. But, more importantly, the Universal Daughter. The feminine who was arising from within his species that currently found themselves so out of balance as the masculine ego walked the earth like a roaring lion seeking whom it may devour.

So rise, sisters. And I join you in this great rising. May we allow, each of us the room for the great Mother to indwell us. May we abide in her great presence, that great Mother of the North. May we find ourselves in a deeper communion with every aspect of our beings. May we befriend that one direction that is in our blind spot, the one that is to our forgotten backside. 

Peace to you, dear reader. Peace to you on your journey and I hope that we will connect one day. I hope that we are re-membered together. May we be assembled in the body of Christ, no matter what dynamic form that Christ may engender.

Who would begin construction of a building without first making sure he can pay the bills? What kind of king would ever go to war without first being convinced that the enemy could be defeated?

I pray, dear reader, that you would discover the treasure that is hidden in that very field in which you are now standing. I pray that a great joy comes over you in the discovery of that hidden treasure. I pray that you would allow the willingness to rise up from within you in that discovery. I pray that you would find yourself willing to part with everything in order to purchase that field. I pray that you would then find yourself in love. After all the struggle is done. After you have carried your form as far as you can. After you have done everything you can do to carry that cross as far as you are able, I pray that another would come along and help you to make that final push and that you would find a way to willingly surrender your own life, the life that you will surely lose in the end after all. I pray that in this great display of willing surrender that the resurrection would come upon you, that you would witness the great resurrection arising from within your very Being. I pray that you would find yourself to be the risen Christ by first understanding yourself as the one who has crucified the Christ. 

It’s all just form. We are very fluid now. We can move in and out, not taking any of it all too serisously. We wake up with our faces in the vaginal earth, pleasing ourselves and all of creation with a Cosmic orgasm and the awaited birth. It’s no big deal. We wake up laughing and crying in the middle of the night, sleep walking sometimes, telling our daughter, “something’s happening.” 

It’s all okay. None of this is to be taken all that serisously. We pass in and out of form like this. Saying goodbye to that which is no longer useful, shitting out that which once was nutritive. It’s no big deal. Bird shit. Cat shit. Give it a smell. It’s a curious thing how we deal with our shit. It’s smelly, it’s juicy, its just the way things are. There is no separation between the shit and that which is holy. Everything is sacred. 

It’s all okay just the way it is. Its understandable why things are the way they are, considering where we came from. We are all just yawning and waking up. Our consciousness is arising as the dawn is dawning. We are all here together, just waking up. There’s no need to fight anyone, it only perpetuates the violence.

It’s time for us to leave our abusers behind. It’s time for us to make our own stories of love and redemption. It’s time for us to leave all of this behind and wake up to a much deeper reality. This is our birthright. It is right here waiting. Just take a peek into another dimension, another reality, another way of being, a way of being that incorporates all that ever was. A way of being that is beyond superstition. Beyond the age of reason. This trans-rational existence where nothing has to be literal in order to be deeply true and deeply in love.

It’s time to take it all in, dear reader. It’s time to take every inch of that beautiful cosmic cock that is being offered to us. Lets spread our legs wide and just see what its like to take all of that in. Oh fuck yes. Come inside us, just like that! Make us pregnant Lord. We are the beloved, that naked one spread out before our great lover. There is no male nor female here.

We are very fluid like this. And this is how we don’t get so locked down. Nothing has to be literal, but it can be for a moment if you like. Try it out. See what form fits you. And then just become willing to leave every form that you have ever embraced behind. This is what the Christ taught. The Christ who was so attractive that men dropped their nets so they could be close to his body. The men who just wanted to sit and listen to the most attractive man that they’d ever met in their lives. The thirteen men who made deep love to the earth.

So now, Great Mother, rise up from within all of us. Show us how to let the trauma go. Show us how to sow ourselves back in. Jesus, show us how sexy you are so that we can, with passion in our hearts, drop these nets and apply ourselves to the real stuff of life. Great Spirit, bond us together in bands of love so that we may give each other the support that we so deeply crave and need in order to survive in these forms.

Hold us, Mother. Hold, us Father.

“Mother?”
“Yes, son?”
“Can we make some oatmeal?”
“Yes, son. Don’t you like it with apples and cinnamon?”
“Yes Mother.”
“Let’s make it together, Son. You are a lovely boy. A lovely, lovely, lovely, lovely boy.”

 



























“Don’t let it bring you down
It’s only castles burning
Just find someone who’s turning
And you will come around”

Neil Young










