 Day 8
9:36PM

50 shades of pray

“You could become a victorious horseman
And carry your heart through this world
Like a life-giving sun
Though only if you and God become sweet
Lovers!”
Hafiz
Translation ladinsky


As the middle-aged-man began his preparations for travel, he first decided to remove a monitor speaker from the bathroom. Why, you may ask, was there a monitor speaker in the bathroom? Why, of course it was there as a support for his laptop as he’d watched netflix in the bathtub. He bent to lift the monitor speaker, dear reader.  As he hoisted the heavy speaker, lifting as best he could with his legs and not his back, he offered his effort to his Lord. He offered the effort as a prayer.

As he gently lowered the monitor speaker to the floor in the bedroom, the man desperately wanted a shower (all the potential energy in a waterfall). 

The handle in the tub was very familiar now, for he had taken many baths and showers in the last eight days. Water rained from the shower head. The hot water began its journey through the pipes. It all flowed toward the waiting man in the bathroom. He took off his clothe. He smelled them. The middle-aged-man brushed his teeth. The hot water now poured through the shower head. The man checked the temperature of the water with his left hand, then he stepped over the threshold of the bathtub. He accepted the gift of the warm water as it ran over his body. he found himself there. He made an offering of himself to the One. 

He recalled Hafiz’s poem, an instruction to allow God to become one’s lover. “Do you see him there, dear reader? There he is—naked in the shower. He is crying out for love. Can you see him there, dear reader?” 

The man cried out. He asked God to become his lover. Memories rushed to him, memories of past forms: A beautiful Bermudian Goddess, one whom he had worshipped. The first Goddess he’d ever know in the flesh. This Goddess who’d begged him with tears never to go. He’d given himself to her with complete abandon, praying that the next time he came in her, that his very soul would be in her service forever. She had become his hope that he could live a good life with another woman that he loved more than his ex-wife. He prayed to her as he delivered his come to her that day, praying that he could become fully hers, praying for absolute ownership and obedience to her being. 

Afterward, once the offering had not had as powerful effect on his own soul as the man had hoped, his desperation only increased. Yes, dear reader, the man in the shower recalled this form that had passed away from his being. He recalled the intensity with which he was able to give himself away to a lover.

Next, the man’s fairy-friend, Brooksie came to his mind. Brooks seemed to delight in openly sharing about the passionate love that he made to himself. Brooks, this being of light, found a way to live with himself as he gave and received pleasure from strange men in the park. Brooks welcomed the men into his big white van at the park. 

Here’s the point:

Brooksie was at peace with himself. 

It was in that way that the middle-aged-man gained some insight, or liberty, or perhaps some freedom from these memories as he was grounded in some deep self-acceptance in that moment. He accepted himself in the memory of his passionate love affair with the Bermudian Goddess. The naked man in the shower allowed it all to be. He resisted none of it. He took this all to be himself. 

And then, Hafiz was there, or rather, the middle-aged-man followed Hafiz’s instructions. He accepted the All as sacred. All his memories. All those sacred forms in which he’d ever engaged, he allowed it all to be redeemed. He allowed himself to be. The naked man in the shower gave himself permission. He took in the whole, or rather he allowed himself to feel that which was already in him. 

The naked man in the shower felt the immensity of all the form and experience in his being, or rather, he acknowledged all that he had taken in. He felt the enormity of his own life experience. He gave thanks for all of the experience. He recognized it all for the holy experience that it was.

He stood, his body undulating now as he was penetrated by the rich presence of his own being. A snake Goddess moved in him as he stood there in the shower. And so, it was then he began to pray, “Put it inside me god, make me pregnant, I want it all,” The middle-aged-man allowed this prayer to come in a deep moaning that arose from within him. The man now begged his Lord. He begged for his Lord’s come just as the man had once seen his come begged for. And it was in this moment that the middle-aged man experienced himself as neither male nor female. He was the Universal. He was All. 

“Fuck me, Lord. Fuck me. I need you to fuck me,” moaned the man, “You are the only one who has enough for me. You are the only one who can satisfy me. Own me. Take me. Take me as your lover. I want you. I need you.” The man in the shower moaned and groaned. His hips moved as the water fell over his slick body. “Yes. Yes. Yes. Please Please Please give it to me. He was the woman. He was the bride. He wanted the giant cock of creation to penetrate him and give him what he needed. He wanted to carry the baby of her man. He was ready. “Fuck me, G_d. Fill me with your come! I need it. I need it. Please.” 

He orgasmed again just as she had in the backyard with his tree sister. There was no erection during this whole interaction. There was no orgasm of the genitals. It was something else. And the man was satisfied. It was good to know that the God of creation was willing to see him naked and horney. It was good to know that his Shiva wanted to satisfy the needs of his feminine nature. 

He now lowered himself to a sitting position in the tub, the warm water falling on his naked skin. In the afterglow of this experience, he continued moving slightly like one often does in the moments after orgasm, he felt the closeness of his Lord. He felt a cuddling. He sensed an intimacy with his lover. He thanked his Lord over and over again. 

The man sat there in the dark, for the motion light had long ago turned itself off. And as he sat there in the shower with the hot water falling on him from above, the man’s penis began to fill. He felt it coming up, pushing up between his thighs. The man who sat in the midst of the falling water, raised his right foot slowly. He raised his right foot slowly to turn the spigot. In this slow movement the man became more deeply aware of the sacred nature of his own movement, the sacred nature of his very being. The water stopped flowing from the shower head.

Again, He acknowledged all of his memories, the all of his being, the all of himself. That which was unacceptable before, now flowed through him. He was now his own lover. 

In that instant of self-recognition, the motion light in the bathroom came on.  The man could now see himself more clearly as he sat there in the quiet tub. And the man was pleased with what he saw. He felt, tenderly in his own hands, the growing erection between his legs. He tugged on it as he communed with the Oneness, as he cried out to his Lord. “I am seen. I am known. I am held. Yes. Yes. Yes.” He cried. “You are so, so, so, so, good,” the man moaned as He felt God readying to fill him up with a cosmic cum. 

A vision of Neil Gayman’s, American Gods came to mind. A man met a god. The god took him back to his hotel room and fucked him, filling him with a sandy orgasm. 

All is sacred now as this Universal man is working himself toward orgasm. All is sacred now as he moves toward his holy Orgasm. There he is, dear reader, without shame before you. He is the one who makes love to the ALL. He is the man who makes love to the All which abides within him. There he is, getting fucked so hard by the All of the creation. There he is, this Universal man who has allowed God to take him as his lover. Here he is, dear reader! He presents himself to you now without shame. He presents himself to the Oneness. Watch him, dear reader, as he reaches his climax. Watch as he gives himself to the absolute ecstasy of this moment. Watch as he finds his own perfect acceptance.

A sacred semen erupted that day from the man’s penis. His prostate pumped it out onto his very own stomach. Lying there, he was witnessed. He felt witnessed. He sensed that he was being held. He felt that he was, somehow, known? He felt seen in a way that he had never been seen before by himself. He was accepted. He was one with All.

He lay back in the tub revelling in the beauty of his Lover. Revelling in his own self-acceptance, the unconditional positive regard that his lover had for him in his nakedness, in the rawness of this human experience. Yes, dear reader, he revelled in the way that all had become holy in that moment. He Basked now in the light of acceptance. He moaned softly, resting in his Lord, the one who held him, the big cat, the one who would keep him safe. This one who had given him his sandy come. The One who demands nothing yet gives everything. The one who had made love to Peter and all the disciples.

The man had found his breath. The man had found his lover. The man was at peace. 

And in that instant, the motion light began to turn off just as it always did, as if in a movie, when the screen fades to dark to signal the end of a scene. Yes, dear reader, the man watched this love scene gently fading from his vision in that way. 

And the man began to laugh. His laugh came from the deepest recesses of his own being. A laughed that was encouraged by the sandy semen that he’d taken in. The man laughed so hard, and his lover laughed too, they shared a secret moment. None of this was all that serious. They shared a joke together, and the man was known, and the man was heard, and the man was receiving all the attention that he needed in that moment. 

This man who was still a baby. This man who was a little girl who liked boys. This little boy who painted the blue snake, the blue snake who goes all the way from the bottom to the top and flips up at the nose. This Mother, this tree Goddess. This father. This wildly-talented writer. This dying author. Eli’s friend. This lover of God.

All and everything was present in this most recent manifestation of love making. There was neither male nor female. The binary had passed away in the sacred recognition of being that had come to pass. This was the man’s expression of the Oneness on that day, the Oneness that an individual may experience while alone in the shower. It was how the sacred presented itself to the man in just that one moment of awareness. 

In Christ, there is no difference between the fallow and the holy, there is no sacred or secular. Our most nourishing meal, after it is accepted into our body, is transmuted into excrement. Everything is just as it is. All form passes from us. Every moment is born anew. This is the great What-Is, dear reader. We are the great I AM. I am the great I Am. She that passes through you this very moment. 

The man had given himself permission to receive this gift as it presented itself to him on that day, dear reader. Oneness had arisen in the man, a waterfall in the life Universal.

How fluid are you, dear reader? 
Just as fluid as you allow yourself to be?
“How much fluidity does life require?” we may find ourselves asking this question.

How much are you willing to take in, dear reader?
Are you ready to take it from your Lord, dear reader?
Are you ready for Him to make you pregnant?

How much do you want it?
How much do you need for him to come inside you?
How desperate are you for that kind of love?
How desperate are WE, dear reader?

Will we continue to see the world through our binary lense?
Or will we take in the BOTH and the AND ?
Will we allow ourselves to be impregnated by the BOTH/AND?
Can we give ourselves permission?
Can we give the male and female permission to fill us from the inside?
Can we feel them BOTH?
Then can we give ourselves the permission to be the AND?
“Yes” to BOTH.
And then
“YES” to AND



One
the other
and the AND

Is this what ALL life requires. Can we give ourselves permission to be that fluid? How fluid do we need to be, dear reader, to make peace with ourselves?

The writer came back to himself in the kitchen. There he stood, facing the great Mirror in the Universal kitchen. He faced North now, toward the generative nurturing adult that he saw in his own reflection. His beard was growing and greying. He had thrown on his favorite pair of pants again without underwear in order to record what you have just witnessed, dear reader. 

In the spirit of Hafiz. In the spirit of Rumi. Those men from the middle East, those men of the whirling dervish. Those poets who made passionate love to the Oneness. Those men who were held closely. Those men who recorded their own passionate love affairs with the divine so many hundreds of years ago. They documented their own love affair with the divine so that we also might have that that same love sparked in us anew. Those dying authors! Those authors who now experience their own resurrection. These holy men whose spirit lives on. These Annointed Ones, dear reader.  Those writers who wrote as they disappeared into that passionate love affair with the all-embracing sacred nature of being.


There will be no apologies for that.


Day 8 
10:45 AM

Now may be a good time, dear reader, for us to briefly discuss spiral dynamics. Yes, my dear reader, it will be a discussion if you will join me. Please, come. Are you ready to witness, my beloved, the sacred spiral of our dear Ophidian Mother? Are you ready to see her as she unwinds in the individual? Will you witness her as she unwinds in our species? My understanding is, of course limited, dear reader, but I will share with you what it is that I know, or rather, what is significant for me in this sacred vision—this Universal vision of the ONE arising Consciousness.

Spiral dynamics is one way in which to understand our evolving consciousness, dear reader. There is an upward spiral which circles back on itself as our consciousness moves from one stage to the next. I first learned about Spiral dynamics through Ken Wilbur as I was studying his Integrated Life Practice.

Spiral dynamics is the upward spiraling path by which we circle back on our own expereince, and then eventually, as we transcend the rational mind, we integrate all of our life experiences into our current experience. Spiral dynamics is the way by which we immerse ourselves in the diversity of Life as it is presented to us. All forms of life are participating in this dance, or song that life is presenting to us right now, in this very moment. 

Spiral dynamics is a way of understanding the ways in which we move through form in our life. Understanding spiral dynamics can help us by giving us a context for constant “leaving behind” of form. We encounter this “leaving behind” with the death of every passing moment. We experience the great rebirth with the emergence of the ever-present moment.

Spiral dynamics is the way by which, as we circle back on ourselves, we find ourselves immersed in a deeper consciousness. When we give ourselves permission to follow this winding path, we eventually integrate all those forms that we’ve left behind. And not just the forms that we ourselves, dear reader, have left behind, but all the forms that our evolving consciousness, on every branch of the tree which we are so graciously grafted into, has ever participated in. In other words, this is a pretty big deal (the Author smiles with you, dear reader).

For instance, when I was in my early twenties, I had an inner-awakening. Because of personal desperation and brokeness caused by the natural trauma of life, I met my Self in a deeper way. The way I came to understand myself to be participating in this awakening was in a fundamentalist, Christian, born-again experience. 

This spiritual awakening came to a contracted and fearful young man in the bible belt of Oklahoma, where fundamentalist Christianity was what the circumstance of our evolving Life was offering. 

This young man embraced his experience for exactly what it was, he took it in for all it had to offer. It was a joyful experience. It was a life-giving experience. And in the midst of this experience he communed with the great What-Is. He communed with the great I AM. He made an agreement with this Spirit within himself. he asked that Spirit to take him all the way. He offered his life to Life and he asked Life to live through him. He prayed fervently,  “Please take from me my life when I don’t have the strength to give it away to you.”(Third day song, maybe give it a listen, dear reader. It was this young man’s form). 

Yes, dear reader, This young man sat at the piano, singing and playing with his whole heart, “burn me up, Lord. Burn me up,” he beseeched the Lord. And in these prayers he was joining himself with the One-ness, recognizing the deep evolution of consciousness that he had seen in the Christ, the One he called Jesus. Just as the Christ’s disciples had done over two thousand years ago, this young man fell deeply and hopelessly in love with the Anointed One, that Universal Man, that Parable from Nazareth--That one life whose depth had touched humanity so intimately, so profoundly and intimately, that the energy of this Universal Man still found root in the heart of this individual being in the bible belt of Oklahoma. The Universal expression of love that he found in the good news of Christ took root in the heart of this young man

This is a common story. It is happening every day in our world. We are born into a new form. We say yes to the form. We follow the form to its inevitable death, the same death that Christ foretold in his own being. And, if we allow it, we transcend that form, and we move on to deeper levels of being. And it is here where having an understanding of Spiral dynamics may become important. Because it is the very essence of Spiral Dynamics which the Christ understood so very well as he watched Life being lived through his own self. 

Our friend, Ken Wilbur would say, that the experience of this young man was all true, but it was only true as far as truth of that form would allow him to go. Therefore, dear reader, in order to embrace the life of deeper truth, the form in which we once knew truth to exist in must pass away.

In other words, those prayers moved the young man. Through those prayers, G_d began moving the young man upward along the dynamic Spiral of Life. It’s really a very natural thing. It can be quite gentle if we allow it. But, we usually don’t, dear reader. We usually feel some obliation to fight this natural progression. We fight because we are so scared. We fight because we have been traumatized. We fight because we are convinced of some innate lack in our very own beings. We contract in fear at the death that is trying to liberate us from our suffering.

The push of life, that birth canal through which we all find ourselves passing, was also delivering this young man to a deeper state of consciousness. Moving to higher levels (or deeper levels if you like) requires a death process. There is a leaving behind of the old, an exchange of the wine skins. A seed must go into the ground and die in order to become the tree. 

This is the death and rebirth process that the Christ modeled for us, the story by which my particular history allows me to accept in this way. Your story, dear reader, may be very different, but you may allow yourself to see this common thread of death and resurrection in the tree. The seed is simply placed in the ground, by whatever course of events. The seed goes into the ground. It dies. It begins to grow. It begins to express the very DNA of its own being. The story of Christ was offering this young man a framework, a context around which to experience all the loss and suffering and confusion that was coming. All the loss and suffering and confusion that so naturally comes as we are recovering from the sacred gift that we were all given. Our sweet, sweet, trauma.

Yes, dear reader, I am once again reminded of our dear friend Andy Dufresnes. The prisoner who chiseled out of his cell with the tiny hammer (the tiny rock hammer that his friend Red had smuggled in for him). This death and rebirth process asks us to leave everything behind in order to move to the next stage of development. This is what it means to sell everything and buy the field. This is what it means when the rich young man comes to Jesus and asks, “Lord what shall I do?” and he says, “sell all that you have and give the proceeds to the poor, then take up your cross and follow me. Pick up this form, Son. It will break you for sure. And the death you die because of it will contain within it the life that you are looking for. But it’s not until the seed goes into the soil and dies that it can become the tree. Do you see, Son?” The rich young man so often walked away confused. 

Isn’t that how the story so often goes, dear reader? We find ourselves pushing away from our death in a desperate attempt to save ourselves. We don’t know how to work with this pain, do we? The pain shuts us down. We are not living. We find a thousand ways to distract ourselves from the death that so wants to find expression in us. Do we not, dear reader, very often find ourselves trying to save ourselves from the very death that was meant to bring our resurrection? 

But the Christ showed us a different way. The Christ showed us the path of a sweet Surrender.

Everything that we love must be forfeited. Including, according to the gospel of Luke, the love of mother, father, wife, husband, and self. And also, according to some translations of these verses, one must even hate one’s self before truly coming to Christ. Ask yourself, dear reader, is this true for you? Is this how you find yourself coming into the absolutely all-inclusive open arms of Christ in this moment. Are you in touch with, dear reader, this deep hate that you have held for yourself? 

I imagine that you are, or you would not have come this far with me, dear reader. For, this message is meant to heal the sick ones among us, the sick and hurting child in our very own beings. These words are for those of us who are just out of reach—those of us who cannot be held by the form as it now offered to us. These words are written for those of us who are imprisoned—those of us who are out of touch with the soil. These words are written for those of us who so desperately need to be sown back in to the soil so that we can die our very own blessed Universal Death! 

This is my story, dear reader. I find myself here with you, desperately praying for a resurrection in my life. We leave our forms behind dear reader, even when that form is our self. That poor, sad, resentful, traumatized being. Is she the one that you hate, dear reader? Or is she the one who is hating? We spiral back around. We transcend our form. We begin to live a resurrected life. And in that moment of resurrection, we say “yes” again, and the entire process is renewed again within us. 

All form can be loved, then left, transcended, and eventually integrated. That’s the beauty of the spiral dynamics model—the beauty of what the Parable was teaching us two thousand years ago. Those things that we loved and left, they come back to us, they are integrated into our consciousness. We may not be in touch with that at the time. But, that’s the reality that Christ was in touch with. That’s the reality that allowed him to suffer and then say “yes” to those who were hurting him.

It is in this way that our consciousness gains depth. We are made rich by the forms of our past as we continue to move upward into the infinite multi-verse, the great evolution of consciousness. I hope, dear reader, that you are able to see the beauty in all of this.

It is in this way that I have returned to the Christ. The Christ that I forsook, just as Petra did. It was Christ’s innate understanding of Spiral Dynamics that allowed him to be who he was. He was embodying the very essence of being. Why wasn’t the Christ at all worried that this man, his rock, his Peter, his Petra would forsake him? Christ understood spiral dynamics. He was the great Spiral. The masculine figure with the heart of the great Kundalini rising from within. That majestic feminine expression. Praise be to Her! The ONE Empress who lived in Christ. She is the One we have been unwilling to commune with. The One we have been unwilling to even look at. We associated Her with our shame, but not now. We are gently being brought into communion with this One whom we have been unable to witness before. But here She is. She is here with us now. Can we just allow her to be here with us? She is not the devil that we thought we needed her to be. Please, Great Mother, will you show yourself to us now. Help us to see. Please, Great Mother, help us to not fear you and the death that you bring to graciously bring to the self. Whatever is false in us, please take it, Mother. Whatever is not genuine, please burn it up. Whatever it is in us that is having such a hard time passing through, will you please reabsorb that into your being for us? Dear Mother. Please hold these Daughters. Please hold these Sons. Mother, we are hungry. Mother, we have been hurting. You know us, Great Mother. You know where we have been. Please make your presence known among us.

“Yes, Dear Ones,” cooed the Great Mother to her newborns, “I am here. Do not worry. I am here. I am with you. You are not alone. Let my light shine on you. Let my light shine from within your very being. Here I am. I am in you. I am everywhere. You are loved. You are held. You are my own. I am yours. When you don’t know your Self, you serve me. When you know your Self you are Me.”

Selah

Is this the ONE with whom you are making peace with today, dear reader. Can we allow Her to have Her gentle presence in us, as we see ourselves held in her spiral? Can you see, dear reader, Her the spiral of the Serpent nature now in your own being? Can you just allow yourself that relationship with Her today?

The Christ understood that Peter would have to work this out for himself. That’s why he was sending the help of the Holy Spirit. But it was only by his intimate knowledge of the Great Serpent, the Serpent that had unwound from his root Chakra, by which he was able to endure the suffering of the cross. The Christ was in deep communion with the very being that his community knew to be the devil, the evil one. Is this now why he was so upsetting to those “others” in his community, dear reader? Is this now why the story is somehow still being told today? 

This is how the great Parable lived and died, dear reader. This is how we were shown love. This is the story that he could not write. This ws the story that he knew he must die for. Long after the body of this Yeshua man was decomposing, his followers began writing, because they were dying a death of their own. They were trying to remember. “What was it that he said? Do you remember? No. That’s not what he said. It was more like this.”

And that’s why there are four different gospels. But there were really more than that weren’t there? There may as well be an infinite number of gospels, dear reader, because that is what we are doing right now. We are making peace with the same life that was lived through our Lord and Savior (that’s okay if that’s how you need to address Him, but I can’t imagine that you’ve made it this far if you do). 

This is the story that could not be held by any one. It could not be told by anyone. But that sure as hell didn’t stop us from trying, because that’s just what we doe when we witness something incredibly happening. We tell the story, my friend! We are beautiful story telling creatures descended from the trees.

And this is the story of the life Universal. This is the story of what it’s like to be human. This is our Universal story today, dear reader, if you are still willing to continue on this journey with me. 

The very hate that was killing us, this hate that we harbored for what was so naturally arising from within, this abomination, is now transformed. She is the one we welcome now. The One who was imbedded in the Messiah. The vey hate that was killing us has now become the tomb in our own resurrection story.

This is how Christ allowed the suffering of the cross into his being: He was the manifestation of the Great Spiraling Serpentress, the dynamic One who sheds her skin so that She can grow. 
Christ knew her intimately. And in that intimate knowledge he prophesied his own crucifixion and death and resurrection. That’s how intimate he was with Her, dear reader. He was so intimately wound up in her great Being that when the suffering came he was able to endure. He held form for as long was needed for this Shamanic act to sing its song to the ages. This Universal death would be seen. Dear reader, this death demands no audience. This death never demands obedience from you. Did you hear that, dear reader? There is no demand here. There is no obedience here. This is beyond that. This is about true love.

True love asks for no promises, because true love knows that promises cannot be kept. True love requires no allegiance, no taking of blood oaths. True love, dear reader, just is. Love is gentle. Love is kind. She never pushes or demands. True love is here with us today in our Great Mother. Please, dear reader, begin your dialogue with her now if you have not yet. This dying author invites you into dialogue with She whom has never left you. You are invited into this very gentle, very sweet dialogue with the Great Mother. She who can absorb the trauma that we so desperately need to leave behind if we are to manifest ourselves as the risen Daughters and Sons. This is what shall be witnessed, dear reader. When the time has come into its fullness, dear reader, this is what we may have a chance to participate in, the Great turning of our people. The Great Awakening of our species to the sacred nature of is very own Being.

Selah

These are the mysteries, dear reader, that fundamentalist religions are unable to hold. While in a binary, fundamentalist mind-set we believe that we must stand fast and never move from our current faith. We believe that we must maintain the faith of our fathers and their fathers before them. But that is not the kind of life that Christ came for. Christ came for a life that is constantly embracing form and then leaving form behind. This is why the concept of evolution is so important in spirituality. Without an understanding of all consciousness evolving from a singularity, we are bound to see life here in this universe as static. And a static view of the world, as we can now see dear reader, is actually the anti-christ.

Christ represents the evolution of consciouness. It took 13.8 billion years for consciousness to evolve to a depth where it could suffer as it did on the cross and simply ask the Source of all life to forgive those who appeared to be the cause of his suffering. This is the significance of the Christ figure. The great Parable who walked among us.

So spiral dynamics is the process by which we leave our old forms. We leave our old form. Then, by the grace of the flexible one, our great Ophidian Mother, we gracefully circle back to integrate what we left behind, thereby deepening our conscious experience. And, this is all clearly written into the gospels for those of us who are sick enough to hear. Are you this desperate, dear reader? Are you ready to see Her living in you? How flexible are you, dear reader? There’s no rush. We have time.

So now, dear reader, we may be ready to discuss what our brother Wilber calls trans-rational being. You see, we really believed there for a while that the age of reason would save humanity. “If we can separate ourselves from blind emotion,” we thought “then we will grow up into the big adults that we need to be. If we can just gather enough Empirical evidence, we will finally be able to reduce everything to it simplest constituents thereby understanding the whole of everthing that is going on here.” Yes, dear reader, our growing species, in its discovery of the scientific method thought that the nature of reality was just about to be understood. And the physisicist, most of them were very confident, “Ahhh, we’ve just about got this one wrapped up,” they said, “Just a few more experiements here, and a few over there…Yes,” we said to ourselves, I think we understand.” But we didn’t understand, dear reader. It was at this point that our deep western yoga of science brought us to the edge. There we stood looking over this gaping chasm of the quantum realm. “It doesn’t behave the same down there as it does up here!” we hollered at eachother across the gaping hole that we’d just discovered in a Universe that we thought was absolutely governed by Newtonian Physics. “Nope, that’s not how it works,” said the German man who’d spent his life riding light beams through the depths of the observable Universe. “No. that’s now how it works,” he said, “You see, it is very disturbing to me as well, but you see, this is how it is: When one particle is affected over here, then another particle which somehow shares an invisible connection with her sister is instantaneously affected on the other side of the Universe, and this communication takes place instantaneously as I mentioned before…faster than the speed of light. You see? It’s spooky. I don’t like it myself. But this seems to be the nature of our reality.”

And there you have it, dear reader. Now, There are still Physicists who will tell you that we basically know everything there is to know. But that’s just not the case, especially when we allow ourselves to question the already very unstable assumption that we are the possessors of a consciousness that is capable of true objectivity.

Yes, the age of logic, reason, rational thinking was a stage in our development, but it was by no means the pinnacle. Thanks be to the Gods!

As we circle back in the great spiraling Being who was the Mother of Christ , we find ourselves coming back to the same place in the circle, but at a higher level (or deeper level if that’s how you choose to see it, a spiral moving toward infinite depth). As we transend this rational state, As we transcend our own personal age-of-reason, as we see logic for the silliness that it truly is, we integrate our rational being (Praise be to the great Opal who said three of the most powerful words ever spoken to the middle-aged-man when she said to him, “Logic is silly”…and so it was that the spell was broken in the speaking of the words from this great Witch) . 

 A lot of us right now are pretty dedicated to this absolute materialist view of the world. Or, in the “spiritual” realm (not that there really is a difference) we could call this fundamentalism. Whether you are a scientist or a religious fundamentalist the root is the same. We are obligated to interpret the world in a very literal fashion. It just so happens that this literal approach to life is so far removed from the roots of our very being. It’s just not very human of us to enforce these kind of rules upon ourselves. Can you see, dear reader, the prison from which our Great Mother is emancipating us?

Moving through the rational stage was quite a feat for me personally. As I said before, I had observed myself floating at the edge of our observable universe. There I floated. My mind was perfectly rational. There I floated. I was hard at work. With a great tool—a great Cosmic Melon Baller--I was scraping out from the shell of my soul all those remnants of those foolish superstitions and religious stories that had so tainted me with their lies. 

However, what I failed to see for quite some time is this: If I was going to be completely rational, if I was going to scrape out the entire Christ story from my being, that I was also killing the poet that I was, and my poet goes back even deeper than my Christ story. As a species, we cannot kill one story without killing all the other stories, and in so doing we are denying something very basic about our being that science confirms…we are storytellers. 

And this is what the great yoga of the West is doing. This has been shown to us by those who have come and gone before us and many who still live in our midst. our Great fathers and Mothers: Thomas Berry, Timothy Bence, Briane Swimme, Bruce Sanguin, Ken Wilber, Teilhard de Chardin, The Universal Eileen, Barbara Marx Hubbard. What were all these voices saying in the life of Universal Man?

It just doesn’t make any logical sense to kill the poet. Because if we burn one story, or stifle one religion then we may as well go ahead and burn ALL the books and prohibit any story telling at all. And I’m sure, dear reader, that you can see how silly that is, because it strongly disagrees with our very biology, with our very evolution. We are story tellers. We are a species who is closely linked with our symbolic stories. Even our sacred practice of science is still just creating a story, a story which is fabricated out of the perception of a universe that is absolutely made of matter, or non-matter or dark matter! (I’m not a physicicist! Nor can I even spell right now! Please, someone take over here as I reveal the fragile nature of my own intellect). 

The point is simply this: things are not nearly as solid as we thought they were.

The only rational move is to allow this beautiful, rational mind to embrace this big, beautiful heart. Can we agree on that today? Can we allow this to happen. Can we allow these big beautiful mind of ours to come into communion with these soft, fleshy, vulnerable, wounded, traumatized hearts of ours? Can we agree to stop hurting ourselves in these ways?

It is this reality that may become evident as we take the medicine into our body. We may begin to see that things are not nearly as solid as we thought they were. We may begin to see the spiraling state of our being. We may begin to see that everything is turning over and over on itself, like the blueberry batter in which my mother gave me my first lesson in spiral dynamics. I was a child. This was before I was ready to understand it on a more intellectual level. But I saw it in the batter, in just the way that a child can and should see it. It was as true then as it is now. The batter showed me all I would need to know really, as far as acceptance goes, was I watch thos blueberries being folded in to the mix. But, I left the batter behind. Just as Peter would not remember the loving embrace of his lover until after he’d betrayed him three times. These are the things that must pass from our understanding so that we can live out the death that the understanding was bringing us to in the first place. We spiral upward (or downward) because that is what Life is doing in us. This is the story of how we make peace with the very nature of our being. This is how our story continues. Very gently. Very compassionately. There is nothing to believe. There is nothing we have to protect. Here we are, just allowing all the stories to come and go. We’re not taking any of this too seriously because now we’ve seen things from a deeper perspective. We’re just yawning. We’re just waking up to a new day as the sun is rising in the East. We’ve got a little smile on our face as we realize the nightmare that we thought was our life was really just a scary dream from which we are awakening.

And this is the moment, dear reader, where we may truly acknowledge that the Universal sun that is rising out there as we speak. This is the moment where we may choose to acknowledge that rising sun by stepping out on that Universal East-facing front porch. Yes, dear reader, this is the moment in which we see the orange of the sun that has yet to peak its face over the horizon, and the blues which are above those oranges. And there She is. The great tree. The One with her roots deep in the soil. The One whose branches are reaching high into the sky. This One who went into the soil so many years ago. The seed that went into the soil, died, and was reborn into this form that we now call “tree”. This deep and majestic one who speaks to us still of the great mysteries of life. And it is in this moment that we might just pull down our pants and relieve ourselves of that which is pushing on our bladder. Yes, dear reader, in this moment we just take a piss off the front porch while we witnessing this great beauty—this sacred act of urination which holds us to the spot so briefly. 

Yes, dear reader, we are connecting with the earth again. We are regaining our communion with the soil. We are returning home to the Great Mother in this way. Please, dear reader, let her help. She is ready to absorb your trauma into her great bosom. She is ready to take you in now. 

Selah

So, as we transcend the literal, as we transcend the rational, as we allow ourselves to become trans-rational beings, what we once believed to be blasphemy (blasphemy of materialism, blasphemy of religion, they have become the same now). We now see all of this process as the sacred Being of nature. This is the view we get as we are spiraling up through the great consciousness of the Great Mother. 

Dear reader, we thought that we would die if we left our old form behind, and that is true in as far as it is true. It is true that there is a death in that leaving. A death that you will certainly experience and feel in your bein. For those of us who suffer like this, this death is the very thing that we literally believe will kill us. And sometimes, I suppose it really does kill us. 
Yes, dear reader, we have all seen this happen

But, who is doing the killing there? Fear? Confusion? Hopelessness? Yes, dear reader, this is how so many of our kind have gone before us, in great hopelessness and defeat. These ones who were just out of reach. These ones who could not be held. These ones who were unable to allow the depth of holding that they needed. Those of us who were not supported in the ways that we needed. Those of us who could not ask for help. Those of us who did not know how to ask for help as they were trapped in the very state of destructive consciousness that would kill them.

You may remember these fallen ones now. Remember them that we may live now. Let there life become a testament to the rebirth that we are now experiencing.

Yes, dear reader, the death that we experience as we transcend is required. But, if we can make peace with that death in ourselves. When we begin this process of, ever so gently, inviting it in, there is a resurrection (the upward spiral) that comes afterward. This is the clear teaching of the great Tree of Life. Do not despair, this process continues in us now. There she is! The Great Mother unwinding herself in the One consciousness that is even deeper than we can humanly imagine. For, there is more to come, Dear Ones. There is more depth to be experiences. Let your curiosity be peaked. There is more to come.

Nothing has to be literal anymore. It’s all just a solid as we want it to be. The stories can come from anywhere now, any source. In fact, the stories that are not “true” are sometimes the best place to find that Being rising up from within us. And I think that this is was what Joseph Campbell was getting at when he was here.

Our brother, Joseph, helped us to see the Universal Thread that was woven into every hero’s journey in every culture. And Carl Jung too, that’s what he was getting at when he was showing us our archetypes. The Christ story is just one way that we can make peace with this Universal Being that is the I Am-ness which we all carry. We are all just trying to make peace with that which is embedded in our DNA, the great spiraling DNA as expressed through the dreams we dream and the stories that those dreams inspire. 

These universal dreams and stories are not to be believed. No. In fact, believing them does them an injustice. We are not asked to make a pledge of allegiance to any one of these stories, no dear reader, that would be so violent. That would require us to go to war again. For with each pledge of allegiance that we make, we also create another conflict in ourselves. And thes conflicts within ourselves lead to conflicts being made manifest in the world.

No, dear reader. There is no pledge of allegiance required. That is not what is happening here.

Dear reader, you are being given permission. And this is not a permission that comes from without. No, dear reader, this permission is coming from deep within your own being. Be still now. Can you feel Her arising? She is the one who gives you permission. She is the gentle one, the one who asks the questions that fill us with compassion for ourselves.

We give ourselves this permission to be intimately engaged with these stories.  We allow Presence to arise from deep within. These stories are not to be believed, they are to be experienced just as we experience a mountain in passing on our journey. These storeies were meant to be left behind. These stories were made to lead us to our deaths and to lead us to our new lives. 

The stories come and go. And we allow them to do just that, as scary as it is. If we are trying to make a religion out of any one particular story, we are nailing ourselves down, we are trying to make this a static experience, we ae trying to take a journey but refusing to let the mountain fade in our rear view mirror. Can you see this, dear reader. Can you see your freedom now? Can you see your own freedom as you allow yourself to leave those pledges of allegiance behind. Can you feel the trauma that these oaths have caused in you? Can you see the damage that these alliances to stories have caused among our people? Can you sense the young men who are dying now, over there? Do you see now how we are sending our young ones off to die lonely deaths as we perpetuate the violence?

Many Americans are able to see the destructive nature of fundamentalism when housed in a religion that is foreign to them. But we are so often unable to see the destructive nature or our own fundamentalism. Not that this is just an American problem, by any means. And it’s not a religious problem either. And maybe I shouldn’t be calling it a problem at all, dear reader. Maybe I just started speaking with a little bit more of that impatient masculine tone thatn this situation truly deserves. Maybe, dear reader, we can allow her to rise up in our midst again. Selah. Maybe it would be more helpful for us to just see it for exactly what it is, part of the evolution of consciousness. Nothing has gone terribly wrong. We are just waking up. We are yawning. Stretching our arms. Letting the sun rise on another day.

Dear reader, whenever we are absolutely certain that our story is the only story, and especially when we feel somehow obligated to defend our own story, then we are participating in fundamentalism. Whenever we are excluding others, or waiting for everyone else to join our club, then we are participating in fundamentalism. Anything less than all-inclusiveness is fundamentalism. Anything less than the wide open arms of an evolving Universal Being is fundamentalism. This is the binary. The fork in the road. The good. The evil. The limited consciousness that is still causing us to suffer so deeply.

And it was through this very intimate knowledge of his Ophidian Queen in his heart that the middle-aged man found himself making love to his Lord in the shower. This was where the middle-aged-man found himself to be. This is how it came to pass that the man found his fluidity in that one peak moment in the shower. This is how it came to pass that he continued his participation in the upward (or downward) spiral of evolving consciousness, folded over and over again into the blueberry batter that his mother had so lovingly shown him when he  was a child.

In the shower that morning, the middle-aged man integrated every form that appeared to him. He was no longer shackled by death and sin, he was experiencing the resurrection. All the forms of love-making he had once participated in or had merely heard of came to him in all their fullness. These forms were integrated in his being. This is how the self-love experience arose within him in the shower that morning. The Universe was evolving in this middle-aged-man. He was engage in a loving experience with the great What-Is. He made love to the great I AM that day in the Universal Shower.

Praise all that was and ever shall be. Praise the ALL from the rootedness of this present moment. Praise be to the ALL. May we continue in at least fifty different shades of Pray.


Day 8
3:22 PM

The man went forth into his day giving thanks and praises to his Lord and Savior. The joy of his salvation was restored unto him. He sang in the field where his great treasure was buried. He played skillfully on his stringed instrument. He sang praises to all creation in the field which held his treasure. This was what he’d sold everything for so many many years ago. 

He vamped the same two chords, singing and praying for his own salvation and also the salvation of the world. He prayed for the Great Turning. He wept in recognition of the fallen condition of his world. He prayed for all of his people. He prayed for all those people who were in his small sphere of influence. He prayed for all those people who were not. He prayed while strumming his guitar. He sang for a world that was in trouble. He prayed for the turning of his people toward the center. He proclaimed his own return, the return of the prodigal son. He sang to the blue sky. He sang to the evergreens. He sang to the sun. He sang to the jet passing overhead and prayed for everyone on board. He knew that all his prayers mattered. He was fully present. He was experiencing the fullness of life. The joy of his salvation was returned to him.

The man continued in his preparation for his journey. He folded laundry, treating every shirt with love and respect, speaking to each one and reminding them of the memories that they shared with him. 

There was the sea turtle shirt, which had come from the big island of Hawaii, where his family had gone on their last family vacation. With the shirt came a vision of two turtles, on male, the other female. They rested in large tidal pool. The male was still. The female swam to and fro in the pool. Young girls jumped in after her. The surface of the water was rippled in patterns by the Pacific breeze blowing in from the blue.

There was also his Blackwater Draw Boys three-quarter-sleeve, which was born from the love that he made with those boys from that band years ago, those deep and powerful boys of the Eastern High Plains who made such a thunderous sound for a brief moment.  Praise the boys of the Blackwater Draw.

And then there was this comfy two-tone blue fleece that he’d had for over twenty years now. She just kept asking to be worn. The middle-aged-man realized his love for this shirt, a form that would eventually pass.

He packed these shirts in his suitcase in preparation for his journey. He packed his socks. He packed his underwear. And he packed his favorite pair of pants that he had worn the morning after he’d taken that “lethal dose” of mushrooms, lethal in the sense that he was afraid that he would not come back. He’d had heard of people not coming back. He’d heard that sometimes it took a while to come back. Hospitalization possibly? That’s what he had been most afraid of that Christmas morning--A psychosis like that.  He didn’t know for sure if all that was true. But, the fear was real that he’d felt. It was the dose that felt lethal, that in the very least caused him to feel as if he were going to die.

The man tidied the great living room. He put his things away. He cleared the house for Dan’s guests who were scheduled to arrive tomorrow. The man made his bed. He folded all the blankets. He arranged the altar that he had constructed in his closet months ago, where he had burned sage and rang his singing bell and meditated. He then prepared a grilled cheese sandwich and some tomato soup for a late afternoon meal. 

As he prepared the meal he asked God, “How will I live? Is there a plan? What will I do when my car insurance is due? What will I do when the child support is due? What is the plan? Is there any way that we can plan together? Are you into that kind of thing.”

All the man’s energy was going into keeping himself in a right mind. He was using all the tools that he had acquired over the years in his spiritual readings, from his psychotherapy sessions, his musical skills, his writing skills, His yoga. He was experiencing some kind of flow today. There was much effortlessness in the way he moved from task to task. But then he got tired. 

He wondered if he was living at the speed of life. He knew that the writing he was doing was helping him. As he wrote about his experiences he was encouraged. Writing was one way that the man was renewing his mind. He was witness to the miracles that were taking place in his own heart as these stories were opening up to him. As he allowed the wisdom to come forth, he saw his story in a different light. He felt that he was performing the miracle that Stephen Schettini had asked of him several years ago. Stephen Schettini, the non-theist monk who asked the middle-aged man for a miracle. “Ha,” he thought out loud, “A non-theist monk asking for a miracle. Was that not a little miracle in itself?”

There are no little miracles, he reminded himself. All miracles are equal, and all flowing from the One Source of Love. All Praise the great mother of the Course! She whose name was not known until after her passing from this world, Helen Schucman. Praise be to the great Mother of wisdom.

Hello Dave
Hi Eileen

I trust that your travels are going well. I hope that you are finding peace with your family today. I wish you all the miraculous promise that these holidays have to offer, and even more than you could imagine.

I take this moment to sit with you in my heart(s), as I am finding that I have many. I am breathing in with our well-being at the forefront of my consciousness. I am breathing in with all gratefulness in my heart. I am agreeing with my body as I expand and contract with these sacred breaths, as I am sitting with you now, supported by these words, this language which we share. The sacred act of offering you these words, once again. 

As I write to you now, I am giving myself opportunity to continue reaching out with the voice that I have been discovering within myself, the voice(s) with which I reached out with to you and also the ones that I have been discovering as this process continues. 

I am truly grateful beyond measure to know that this message will arrive in our shared space, as I continue to allow this Presence to arise from within my being. This space that you two are holding for me is truly a miracle of healing, as I suspect you may witness as you eventually read what has been coming out.

This writing experience is ceremonial in nature. This space we are holding together for this project is my place of tender communion with Spirit, and knowing that I am not alone in the saying "yes" to this communion is a Christmas miracle. Although I sit here alone on Christmas eve, I do not feel alone by any measure. I cooked a lunch for my three children today and we shared deep laughter and music! Praise be to the mother of my children! Praise be to the mother arising from within who will surely offer us all the help we need to witness the Great Turning.

So, I continue to give you thanks as I acknowledge the One Spirit that indwells you. I allow my Self to emerge in this communication with you. Taking the time that I believe this/these relationship(s) deserve(s). 

I love being a writer. I have this sacred and safe space in which I have been allowed to begin this work, for which I am immensely grateful. I am finding communion within myself in unprecedented fashion. I am allowing myself to be folded back in. I am still making this offering. I am maintaining self-care. I am attending to relationships. And all my actions and thoughts and words are being twisted into the vine of this sacred experience.

I give you thanks again for your continued prayers and wishes-of-wellness (however that may work for you). I pray for continued expansion of your Awareness and Self consciousness. I pray for your growth in all matters personal and private. I pray for the renewal of curiosity. I pray for your restoration and healing in all aspects of your being. I pray with all the respect and gentleness and love that I am able to channel today.

I believe that I will go ahead and attach a copy of the work that I have completed thus far just so that it will find another safe home within to dwell. I Of course, it goes without saying, but There is never any rush or demand placed upon you to attend to the reading of what I send. 

My working title is "The Moth, The Mountain, and the Middle-Aged-Man: self Awareness communes with Self Consciousness"...other "M" words I've been working with are "Mother" and "Mushroom", as the feminine and the soil are also very important players in this dialogue that is happening. Mothers, being those who support us from the soil and mushrooms (fungus) being those which created the soil from which we have all arisen. I am holding on to all of this very loosely, understanding my newness with all of this and acknowledging your experience. In other words, I am allowing myself to joyfully participate in this form as writer as I acknowledge you both as publishers and artists.

Dave, you mentioned the possibility of a powwow. I am headed to Oklahoma City this Friday, and I do not have yet a definite departure date, but it appears that I will be there at least through Monday. I mention this because the last time I was there, Arkansas was adjacent to Oklahoma :-) I mention this in recognition that we will be relatively close and I would be willing to make a drive to see you, if time and finances and other circumstances allow. I just thought that I would shoot up that flare and see what happens. A flare? what am I talking about? is this a rescue mission? I suppose there is an aspect of my being right now that is searching and in distress. I'm remembering now that this did all start with Leia's distress call that she'd placed in R2. 

I have never been so uncertain about my future. I have never been so free. I have never been so able to cast aside the cares of this world and say "yes" to a future of infinite possibilities. I am learning how to function here. I am learning how to non-plan things. I am learning. I am a student searching for the school.

I wish you a warm Christmas filled with family and each other...and a magi...yes...a magi...a visitation from a magi...that brought a small smile to my face.

Warmest embraces
Travis
(575)6076647
Harbor Dave contacted the middle-aged man by email:

Hey, Travis—

Whew! Coming up for air...

Oklahoma, eh?

We're kinda booked every day—except Sunday! 

If you don't mind a bit of a drive (a 2 hour estimate?) we could meet you in Bentonville! (We can feed you in return! And spend the afternoon, if that works.) 

Normally we're not this tightly packed, but this trip is kind of crazy, and we flew instead of driving. A pity. I do love the drive. And now I shall go and check out your previous post (The Moth...) which I just noticed a second ago.

Hope you had a great holiday. Sounds like you've been quite busy inside. Not sure if holidays are positive or simply annoying in that condition. Usually when I'm in full-throttle writing mode, all the external hoopla seems like a bit of an intrusion. (Bah humbug mode.)

So, yeah, it would be great to see you...but which ever mode works best (nose to nose or screen to screen.) BTW, if Sunday doesn't work, we might be able to squeeze another day, but not sure at the moment what our full schedule is. The fluidity of life! Ain't it grand!

=D

And so it was decided that the writer was scheduled to meet with the Universal Eileen and Harbor Dave on Sunday.


The middle-aged man’s experience at cabin weeks ago opened his heart toward his father. Their texts were recorded like this:

Son: I’d like to see you soon. I don’t want anything from you. I just want to stand in your presence

You see, dear reader, the middle-aged-man hurt his father very deeply when he’d asked him for some money. This all happened about a year ago. The man was in crisis again after giving himself away to his Bermudian lover. The man’s ego was out of control, he’d allowed thoughts of suicide back in. The man wanted help from his father. It was with a true sense of desire to be connected with his father that the son reached out. 

But, the son ended up asking his father for some money. When the son asked for money it triggered deep anger and resentment in the father. The father melted down in a booth at a mexican restaurant, with a shaking voice and tears in his eyes, the son, once again blamed his son for his misery. “You are the reason that I am a miserable man. Do you know how long I’ve wanted to put a bullet in your head? And your mother too, a bullet in her head, too.” The son was not aware that the father had wanted to put a bullet in the heads of himself or the mother.

The son, who had called the father for help, breathed deeply as his father chastised him for quite some time. The father would not let his son talk. The son only tried to speak in return once. He was shooshed. “No, you listen to me right now,” said the father. And so the son remember his Vipassana practice and sat there in the booth for a very long time.

When the father was finished, his son said, “Father, I am sorry for all the pain that I have caused you.”

In the wake of that event, the father communicated very clearly that he did not want his son to ask for anything from him again. This is why the son clearly stated, “I don’t want anything from you” in the text that he’d sent to his father.

“Mother?” the middle-aged-man opened himself up to the inner Wisdom, “Mother, will you be with me as I make this journey toward my father? Strengthen me. Please hold me as we watch this flower together. Please give me a heart for my father.

“Yes Son, we will pray for your father. He suffers very deeply. He is one of the hurting ones.”

“Yes, Mother. Please pray for my father. Fill my heart with love for this man who did the best that he could with what he was given. I give you thanks for my father.

And then the father responded to the son’s text:

Father: sounds good! Next time you are in OKC you are welcome to stop by…appreciate a heads up if you do…Probably be more sitting in my presence in liew of standing up…up to you I guess…haha

Days later, after some further exchanges of addresses and information the conversation went like this:

Son: How far in advance do you need to know I’m coming? Respectfully

Father: are you in my driveway?

Son: No. LOL. Really. LOL. Oh man. That’s funny. I love it.
Are you in my driveway? Oh my gosh…that is the punchline to my morning! It just keeps delivering. (for some reason this really tickled the son. His heart was set on his father again..
Are you in my driveway! Oh my goodness. Real mileage. Thank you, father.

Dad: you can come by anytime…any day…as often as you like…no notice necessary…I’m thinking of replacing the couch in the back bedroom with a bed so you’ll be comfortable…Come by anytime. No notice required…Pop ins welcome

Son: Oh man. That’s quite an invitation. I gratefully accept your invitation. I gratefully receive all the life that you have freely shared with me. Thank you, father.

Father: how quick do I need to switch out the couch for a bed?

Son: There’s no need to rush out and change the furniture just yet. But, I accept the invitation nonetheless, in its fullness. I accept the heart of the invitation with an open heart of gratitude…I am truly grateful for all the gifts that you have freely shared with me….I am grateful to you for the space that you held, for the sufferings that you endured to keep a roof over our heads…Today I am gifted with a heart of gratitude. I acknowledge the life that you shared with all of us…4….That number was special to me. It was the number of “us.” It was the count…Then my number became 5…5 was the count…and I still hold that count in my heart…with as much grace and forgiveness for myself as I can channel today. There has been a lot of suffering. A lot of anger. A lot to bear. I have come to know this suffering intimately in myself. I am making peace with this suffering in myself today…Holding the joy in one hand. Holding the the suffering in the other…living with them both…coexisting with all of that. Just for today…just for this moment…just in this breath…I do not know what the next moment brings…

The son was really blowing up his dad’s phone! He continued:

Son: I’ve spent a lot of time in prayer and meditation over the last year…December 27th 2018 I went to the psychiatric unit. Got out on new years day. Then I went to a(nother) treatment center. January 8th through february 5th…These dates are in my memory…I’ve been making peace with the fabric that holds us together…Making peace with the Father. The Mother. And somehow making peace within myself. I baptized mysef in a bathtub a few weeks ago. Then I went to a church and got baptized with witnesses. Then I baptized myself just last weekend in a cold mountain stream, in my underwear, like a wildman, running for the cover of trees as a car passed by on the highway just fifty feet away. 40 degrees outside. Then I climbed a mountain in dialogue with the Father. “Father?” “Yes, Son”…and in doing so I have made a deeper peace with you

Father: I am grateful at this moment that you are talking to me…It strengthens me…I feel so lost when we don’t text..Kathy and I hate each other…truly…she told me God gives her strength every day to put up with me…she is a gift from God…I jumped into this marriage 25 years ago cause I was insecure and my feelings were hurt by dismissal from my life of 4…This marriage was a mistake…I just have to wake up and move on…I don’t understand my hesitation…maybe this year…You are important to me. Your kids are important to me. She is not important to me!

Son: I really appreciate your honesty. I recognize your pain in myself.

Father: I want to make peace with you and your kids…And with your brother…No more pain…peace

Son: when I was at the psych unit, this gay black man asked if he could pray for me. I said, “yes.” All I remember is that he said, “The Lord is restoring you.” And I was just so desperate that I just accepted that gift. And I started this process of waking up to a deeper reality…every day….accepting the death and the suffering along with the joy.,,accepting myself for exactly who I am in this human form…my strengths and weaknesses…I pray for your restoration father…Making peace is more than (I) (we) can do. I have to trust that the peace is already made. I find the peace in myself first. This is all more than I am capable of “fixing.” I am grateful t be in dialogue with you today. What a gift. I love that you can see Kathy as a gift from God, in all that pain and suffering. That’s how I see Carol too. She helped me to see how hurting and alone I am/was.

Father: I am grateful as well…I feel restored talking to you today.  

Son: I received a very encouraging email today from a small publishing company. She said that I am a wildly talented writer and that she and her husband, who own the publishing company, would like to help me to develop my voice She expressed a strong willingness to help me develop what she recognized in my writing as a “brand new genre.”

Father: That sounds very exciting! So you will submint our work…and they will helpfully critique and give you ideas and direction? What is your genre?

Son: send me your email address…I will forward you the beautiful email that I received.

Father: I’ll check it out

Son: It’s the most beautiful thing anyone has ever written to me.

Father: nurturing and encouraging and so intellectually spoken…writing is such a good outlet….I hope things go well with Dave and Eileen

And so it came to pass that the father and son arranged a meeting at Louie’s restaurant at lake Hefner on the following Monday. The son would bring his children. The father would buy them all a meal.


Day 9
1:32 AM

The man woke just after midnight. Eli was sleeping at his side. Eli, the abandoned cat whom Dan had taken in. Eli, the face of the lion who had appeared to the author in the passing of the moth. Eli, the shaman cat who did his best to ground the man as he had travailed in bed on that Christmas morning. Eli, the dominant cat--The divine being that the author had the privilege of watching come and go over the threshold.

It was Friday morning. His children were scheduled to arrive at 8:30. They were bringing their father Christmas presents. The last time he’d seen this was on Christmas eve day. And what a day that had been for the father!

That Christmas Eve Taco Tuesday! The children arrived in gladness and singing. The father was happy and proud. He exalted in their presence. The father placed his phone in the middle of the table to record their playful back-and-forths. His children were all musical, and lyrical, and funny, and sometimes very silly. The father and his children sat at a round table in the great kitchen. There they sang and made audio recordings. They listened back to their recordings with laughter and anticipation. 

This reminded the writer of how, when he was a boy, his parents owned a cassette recorder. He recalled the magic of recording his own voice and playing it back. When he was 15 he’d he used two cassette recorders to make a hisy two-track recording. He dreamed of owning a multi-track recorder one day. And then one day, he did! But it wasn’t until he was twenty seven years old, or was it twenty eight? 

It was the Son’s father who bought him his multi-track recorder soon after he resigned his job as a police officer. Yes, he handed in his badge and sold his glock forty-caliber. He traded in his gun for a micorophone and a Roland VS1824 (yes he still remembers the model number of the glorious machine). This young man who was engaged in a stepping-away process. As he stepped away he began to sing. And he wrote new songs. And he recorded new songs. The young sat with his headphones on until two and three AM. The children were sleeping.

Praise be to the father who funds the artistic progression of his twenty-seven year old son! The story has never been told this way. Praise be to the new story which arises within the son! Praise be to the deaths! And Praise to the resurrections!

The son was grateful to remember this detail that he’d often overlooked in story. This was the story of a father who supported his son as he was walking away. 

The middle aged-man’s heart was greatly turned toward his father in the remembrance of this detail. He stood in the kitchen, facing the nurturing adult. The son saw a nurturing nature in his own father’s heart. He could sense it in the memory of his father. To see this nurturing heart in his father was a miracle in the son’s heart.

The young man sat until the small hours singing into the condenser microphone. With the recorder that his father bought, he explored his music on a deeper level.  The full moon hung in the sky. Do you see it there? There’s the moon. It’s hanging in the sky there, just above that light blue water tower. The moon is so bright that one side of the reservoir seems to be glowing. 

Do you see that little red brick house? In that home there are two cute-footed munchkins They are asleep, sound in their beds. Do you see the young wife asleep there too? Do you see her toss and turn? Her belly is big with a baby. And there he is, our dear young man who sits reveling in the sounds coming from his heart, hands and lips. 

There sat the young man who’d traded his glock for a microphone. Yes, dear reader, he left that job as a police officer. He could not make peace with the job in his heart, so he walked away. 


Dear reader, while we are on the subject of walking awayonly job in which he had ever had health insurance, the only job in which he did not have to empty or clean the trashcans. He began recording.

The young man received some recognition. He recorded a song. It was a song about a young man whose brother goes off to war and comes back with his trauma. Unable to recover, his brother Jack ends his own life. Down by the Washita River, JoJo’s brother Jack blows his own head off with a shotgun. 

JoJo is left behind to find his own way in the wake of his loss. His family is unable to provide him with comfort, they are unable to hold him. And so he searches. He searches to make peace with his loss. And finally he prays a version of his own brother’s chorus as he reaches out to a God that he cannot make peace with. JoJo sings, “Oh Lord, I’ve got a pain down in my soul, and nothing seems to make it go away. And I don’t know how much longer I can go. I don’t know how much longer I can go.”

The writer looked at his work. The writer reached out to Mother. How would it work today? In what form would the witer find Spirit today?

Dear reader, please let me introduce myself, for I am feeling somewhat lonely. I am sensing God’s presence in you. I am the voice of the editing writer. He is in his own timeline now.  He can be spoken of in third person, or he can speak in the first. Let’s see how this works…

It is just past midnight. I am the voice of the editing writer. I’ve been with you this whole time, you heard me as the voice of mother, for it was with this Mother who I have. But tonight, dear reader, something else appears to be happening. There is a critical voice. The critical voice speaks to me as I sit here in the great living room. It tells me that I am separated from the Spirit. I sense a darkness in my being. 

I am here too, dear reader. I have become lonely in the not addressing you.  I am trying to have compassion for this young man. I am fearing for myself, for I went for the pipe first thing when I woke up just after midnight. I am in the middle of this son’s journey back to his father. I know what happens. Yesterday, I was at peace with all this, but right now I am struggling. 

“What are you struggling with, Son?”

“I’m scared,” said the editing writer. I’m scared to be alone. I’m scared that I may slip back into my addiction.”

“I hear you Son, you are saying that you are scared.”

“Yes Mother, and I am scared that you will leave me. I am still scared of the Great Turning as it turns in me. It can be very scary for me to leave form behind. It makes me sad to think of leaving you behind. What is happening in my Spirit right now, Mother? Mother, please speak to me.”

The editing writer, the middle aged man was very fearful. The medicine that he smoked, possibly mixed with the little nibble of mushroom that he’d found. Yes the editor was no longer editing. He was engaged in a challenging experience.

“Mother? Is it okay to view this situation like this? A challenging experience?

“Well son, that seems to be what it is,” the Great Mother smiled.

“I am afraid Mother. I am afraid now that I have spoken forth such blasphemy. My fear is great that I have stirred up the devil. My fear is great that I have invited evil spirits. What if this Great Serpent Mother is the devil who I am conjuring? What if I am speaking to the devil? Is it true that it was you, Great Mother, who lived in the heart of Christ? And Great Mother, are you not just another form that I am leaving behind? Are you not just another symbol in my heart? Another construction? 

A young mother wearing a tank top shrugs her shoulders playfully, “You can’t smoke too much of that stuff, hun. It’s not going to hurt you. See, you think that it was the medicine that made you want to kill yourself. That was just an ego problem. Isn’t that what the program says? Your problem is not the substance that you’re abusing, the problem is your self-centeredness? That’s exactly what we’re working with today.  We’re working with your ego during this healing process, that’s what this is about, the root of your so-called problem. There’s no problem really. The problem is the illusion. Or, the illusion is the problem. Either way. Both/And? Remember. Do you understand the implications of really taking this in? 

The woman paused.

There’s no problem when the ego’s not involved, right? She said.

“Right,” said the editor.

“Wrong,” laughed the woman in the tank top shirt. She was an attractive Mother. “The ego’s not going anywhere. That’s what your friend Bill’s been trying to tell you. Do you remember that 3d ego stuff that he was talking about.”

“Uggh mom, his stuff is really challenging for me to read.”

A pouting teenager was speaking through the editor.

“I wasn’t saying that you had to go read him right now, bud. But you did dig in to his stuff, and you did like it. Did you not!” She smiled, arms wide open, chest out.  “then she continued, “you paid attention, didn’t you!” She proudly announced. “Which is exactly why you have context right now for what I’m saying! Shit ya!” 

This lady was making the editor smile now. He allowed himself to feel it for a moment. Her playfulness.

“You see,” said the attractive woman. That ego hasn’t gone anywhere. And that’s okay.”

“Are you suggesting that I live with my Ego, Mother?” the editor wondered about his choice in addressing this attractive young woman as “Mother.”

“Yes, that is exactly what I am suggesting.”

“But, I just want it to pass away, leaving me in a guru’s life of bliss. I want to be cared for. I want to walk in security.”

“I know that you are aware of the twisted mess that you just opened up with that last statement. And that’s great! She beamed, “because it’s that twisted mess that must be untangled!” She was really coming into her outfit now, cowboy boots and white straw hat, denim jeans, and white tank top.

The editor liked what he saw…

“Did this really just happen? Did a love interest just appear in the story?” wondered the middle-aged man. 

“Yes, Mother…I feel strange calling you, Mother. You are too attractive for me to call you mother. Although my friends did say that I had a “hot mom” when I was in highschool.

“It’s all just fine. Just relax. We’re just warming up. Go smoke a little more. Let’s see where we end up.”

“I think I know where we’re going with this.”

“Ahhh, there you go, my friend, you let your ego come to play again! She encouraged. I knew that you were going to like this. You have a strong ego. It’s not a bad ego. Practice with me. Are you ready? Here we go. Repeat after me:

“My ego is not the devil.”

The editor looked at this attractive female who was just a bit younger than him. He wondered if he could trust her. “She wants me to repeat after her?” he questioned? “She wants me to speak out loud? She wants me to say it out loud. Is that what I’m understanding?

“My ego is not the devil,” the editors own words resonated in the soft acoustics of the great room.

“There we go.” Thank you, smiled the attractive woman. 
She smelled good. Like a human being.

Yes, the writer was quickly falling for this woman in the cowboy boots. He felt that he’d known her forever.

The editor returned to his heart. The editor returned to the great room. He knew that this woman had something to teach him.

He went back to work. The editor returned to the work of tracking these past weeks of his life. The editor was in the process of constructing the altar. The altar that he was building for those who are just out of reach—for those of us who are imprisoned and unable to contact the soil.

“Okay, lady in the tank top! Where are you? Was there ego in that? Was there enough ego in that for you?”

The lady’s mood became more serious, yes there it is, compassion in her voice “Is this a real question, or are you just being self-critical?”

Her questions did have the same effect as the Great Mother. 

A man in a grey janitor’s suit came and started doing some work in the middle-aged-man’s brain. “This is gonna make you feel a little dizzy,” he said.

Yes. The editor did feel a little dizzy as the janitor was doing his work which apparently involved the wild swinging of hands. 

The editor was not sure any more of where this was going. All of this was very surprising.

The editor now wondered if it was time to move on with his “work.” The editor was trying to get a job done. He wanted this altar built. He wanted to see pages being edited. He was not aware that there was going to be new characters introduced tonight. The editor was not prepared for this creative process. 

“Who will edit the editor? Am I not creating an endless feedback loop here?” boggled the editor.

“May I please return to my work now?” he nodded to the woman in he tank top who was now sitting at the fireplace in the great living room.

“You can try. Shoot, we can try! Let’s do it together, Son! One step at a time!” 

“So, like a collaborative thing?” said the editor/writer. 

“Come on, let’s go!” Encouraged the attractive woman who smelled like a human.

The editor wondered if she could be trusted.


Dear reader, we return to the young man under the water tower. The great water tower, which held thousands of gallons of water just over the family beds.

The son makes a recording. The son is invited to sing a song at his favorite music festival. He sings his song in front of thousands of people at a music festival in Winfield, Kansas. 

“Are you okay with me celebrating my life like this, said the editor? Look at that,” he said to the lady sitting on his fireplace. It’s nice to see something like that happen for this young man. Is it helpful at all to have compassion for my past self? Is that not just ego? Is there a way I kind write about the happy details of my life without it being egotistical? I’m so deep now in this self-meditation. I’m wrapped up in my own story. Isn’t this what we’re trying to avoid. I don’t know what’s going on here anymore.”

The lady in the cowboy hat just smiled. She was very cute when she smiled. The editor had forgotten that he was attracted to her until she smiled just then.

“How much of this young man’s story is relevant to our reader? That’s the question that this editor has for you?”

“Well, let’s just see,” she said.

The son practices for a flatpicking contest, a contest which he will fail at miserably. 

“What kind of emotions does that bring up? Was that a failure, Son? Is there any failure in a young man working hard and dreaming big. Do you remember how hard you practiced your guitar as you approached that contest? Do you remember all the joyful work you did? Do you remember how you dedicated yourself to your music during that time? That was not a failure at all, was it.?

The young man discovered that he doesn’t play at all well while he is wearing a number on his chest. 

“How does that statement feel in your heart? Is there some alienation there? Is there some loneliness? What is that feeling in your chest. Just feel it…You really felt disappointed that you didn’t perform well in front of that crowd.”

“I had really convinced myself that I was going to do well. I practiced so hard. I fell apart on stage. I just couldn’t play the songs that I’d practiced with all of my heart. That was crushing to me. I was heartbroken when I walked off that stage.

 “Can I take that from you?” Said the Great Mother as she spoke through the lady sitting at the fireplace. “Would you like to give that back to me?” she said. 

“Look,” said the editor, “I’m attracted to you. I thought we were going to have a thing. And if we are to have a thing, I’m not sure I want you absorbing my trauma.”

“Fair enough,” said the lady sitting at the fireplace. What was that he saw in her eyes? She was so beautiful. She had the attractive expression of some unknown actress. He was captivated in that moment. He wondered if he would return to work.

“Is this the woman that I met earlier today as I lay in the grass? I think it was. I felt her out there in the grass.”

He tried to return to the business.

Universal story line:

Son holds form (the death) (a seed goes in the ground)
Son abandons form (burial) (it dies)
Son receives a creative gift from father (resurrection) (the seed becomes a tree)
Son’s being is expanded as he follows dream (sanctification) (deepening roots, higher branches)
 
the father gives him a gift that sustains him during that period of time. The father gives him a gift that connects him with others. The father gives him the gift of music which is reaching out and touching others. The father gives him a gift. Let’s just sit on that for a moment.

The author returns to his three pillows stacked in front of the sink.

And that was the story of how the editor began working with the writer who was the middle-aged man.

“Smoke it while you got it, Son. Smoke it while the smoke is here. We’ll work together. Is it the substance that has the power or is it the ego. You have seen that the smoke is good medicine, haven’t you? Can you trust me? Can you trust my medicine?

Selah, my friend. Selah.

And this was the story

The writer now acknowledges a fluttering. There was a very intense fluttering in the middle-aged-man’s left ear. The fluttering came after he ate the mushrooms. He felt the fluttering deep in his being. It was jarring. Frightening even. He was not sure if the sensation was a warning, “Stay away!” or if it was inviting. It had the intensity that a warning could have. 

The man ducked for cover. The fluttering was that intense, more of a buzzing, and intense jolt. Like you’d just stuck your finger in some kind of Universal light socket. 

That same fluttering came upon him as he reached out for the Kachina doll. The Kachina doll who appeared to be reaching out to him. This was the middle-aged-mans final act in the kachina ceremony that night. 

Do you see him? He is there on his knees. He is naked. He is the one who has prostrated himself to the Chiefs. He isacknowledgeing their strength in the-holding-of-form. He is asking permission to approach them. Do you see him? He is reaching out to the Chief who is reaching out to him. Watch him now as he slowly reaches up to touch the hand of the Chief. He is moving so slowly, with great care. Yes! There it was. Did you see him jump like that as he was enveloped in that surge of Universal Energy. 

He approached slowly and reverently. As his finger neared the hand of the Kachina doll, the great fluttering enveloped the man’s being. 

“What kind of ceremony was that?” wondered the editor.

Weeks later he heard the fluttering in his ear again. It came with the resurrection of the moth. The man witnessed the moth as it lived through its last moments on this earth. The glittering lion presented himself to the man in those last moments of the moth’s life. The face of Eli, the one who slept with the middle-aged man.

The author takes this moment to recognize the fluttering in his left ear. The fluttering that made him duck for cover. The fluttering that came to him several times that night in the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest where he was provided shelter by the great Mother, the mother who plays the mandolin, the one who has extended an invitation to the middle-aged man to  visit her home “often,” the home in Cloudcroft where she will live with her mate, Stan after the remodeling is done by David. David, the one who offered his healing hands to the middle-aged man, free of charge, during the early stages of one of his many recovery processes. Praise be to the One who brings us all together! Praise be to the Stan! Praise be to the One who saw/sees that we are the second coming of Christ. 

Praise be to the moth, the resurrected one who flutters in our ears as we recognize our one-ness with the soil, and the stars, and the sky, and the grass. Praise be to the one who bought that field! Praise be to the one who hid the treasure in the field! Praise be to the father who gives gifts so that sons can make their transitions! Praise be to the spiraling snake who winds herself into the infinite multi-verse! Praise be to these spiral dynamics. Praise be to the trans-rational being! Praise be to Life and her desire to live through us! Praise be to the ONE who gives all gifts, from whom all life flows! Praise be to the Mother and the Son and the Holy Ghost. As it was in the beginning, it now and ever shall be. World without end, Amen Amen.

The universe dialates and contracts. There is the singularity. There is the explosion, the going forth. There is the coming together, the coalescing of matter. There is the formation of stars and planets. There are rocks. Life springs from our fluid brother, water. Life moves to land. There are mushrooms. There is soil. There are plants. Consciousness finds expression in numerous forms. The universe continues expanding. The universe falls in on itself. The universe is the breath, the unspeakable name, the Y-W-H, the life that is observed in the very breath that you, dear reader, are taking in right now, and the very breath that you are now expelling.

And so it came to pass that the Son saw the universal thread in his own life. His story was the story of the universe. The impossible task of rewriting his story--the task assigned to him by the Naked Monk, that one who walks away from form, his friend who was also spiraling, the one who was also being folded into the batter over and again—Thank you for holding me, Naked Monk. this impossible task of rewriting his story was coming to pass. The miracle that the non-theist monk had requested was being performed. It was not completed yet, but the author trusted. The author trusted that the work that had been started in him would be brought to completion by the Life that was now being lived through him. World without end. Amen. Amen.

“Breathe, my Son.”

At 2:58 AM, two days after Christmas, he faced North into the great mirror. He asked Life is she was through speaking through him. He sat on the pillows. He wondered if it was time to go back to bed. He stood from his position on the three pillows. His fingers were curled over home-row. He breathed in and out, in the way that Thich Nhat Hanh had first instructed him to do—in the same way that the Universe had instructed him to do just moments before. 

Life was not through with him, he knew that now. He stood there at the marble countertop knowing that Life was not through with him. Life was absolutely not through speaking through this man who was in the process of making peace with a Universe that was out to help him. 

And so, he trusted. He trusted as he closed his laptop. He trusted as he made his way back to his room where Eli was possibly still sleeping in the bed, the bed that the man did not own, where the cat slept, that cat that he also did not own, in the house that he surely did not own. What did he own? He was not sure if he wanted to own anything any more.

The field with the hidden treasure! That’s what he owned. He owned that field. That same field where the pilot did the controlled landing. The calm and collected pilot set the plane down in the field of his dreams. It was a controlled landing in that field, like Sully landing in that river. The pilot saw the field just below him. He circled round and he set her down. He got out of the plane. He looked around. 

“Now where was it that I hid that treasure?” he thought to himself. “Ahhh,” he said out loud, “I think it’ right over here—over here by these trees, these Goddesses of the earth.” Praise be to the Sully, the one who finds a place to set her down. Amen

And so it came to pass that the dying author trusted. He closed the laptop, and retired to his room at 3:08 AM.


Day 9

As he rolled out of bed again, his cell phone said it was 4:04AM. When he arrived at his laptop--which was perched on his bible and all three volumes of A course In Miracles (Praise the Helen Schucman)—his laptop told him that is was 4:03, a phenomenon which the author felt certain was merely a lack of synchronization and not a miracle of time travel. However, at this particular waypoint in what had now become his very own personal course in miracles, he was open to the possibility of the possibility of time travel. The blue books had taught him that there were no large miracles and no small miracles, they were all equal in size and difficulty, all flowing from the heart of Life and Love. Than you, Helen.


The writer trusted his way back to his bedroom. Eli was not there. But he would arrive soon, announcing himself with the scratching of his claws at the base of the bed. “There you are!” said the man to the cat. “I’m so glad you’re here.” 

As Eli clawed his way up the bed, the man sensed a figure standing over him, beside the bed. He allowed that sense to come and go, trusting rust that there may be miracles occurring of which he was only partly aware of. He was aware that a male figure was present with Eli’s arrival.

Eli scratched on the door. “Will you please let me go outside?” he said…

“Is it absolutely necessary for Eli to talk? There is an objection in my being to giving Eli a human voice and a human mind,” said the editor after he’d just closed the cat’s quotations.

It appeared that Eli wanted in the garage. Eli, the cat who did not speak with a human voice. He spoke an entire language all together, one that the writer wanted to learn. The cat thought not of tomorrow. 

Eli liked to be in the garage. The writer, of course, did not know what Eli did while he was in there. 

The cat slept on the man’s pillow for a while last night. He liked the pressure on his head. He felt it grounding him. As he drifted in and out of sleep, the man was pleased. He was pleased with himself. He was pleased with his form. He was pleased at what he was witnessing in his own story, He was now seeing the Universal story in himself. He was witnessing a Universe who was out to help this young man integrate. This young man’s life was a microcosmal Universe embedded in the shell of a larger Universe around him. The writer believed he’d seen animated versions of the embedded reality of nature. This was the spiral dynamics. The depth. Every level of consciousness being embraced by the One. Yes, this embracing that happens to the former level consciousness.

“Is this what we are working on?” The editor asked. “Am I embracing these former expressions of consciousness. Is this what I’m doing? Am I looking back on my life with compassion? Am I celebrating my own life? Is this what this is? Is it appropriate for me to celebrate my own life in this moment? Is that possible? Could I?  please? I don’t even want to question this. I just want to say ‘yes’ to celebrating my own life. Now, how does that work?”

“Is it possible to celebrate your own death?” asked the Great Mother?

Do you see there! There it is! It is happening! That middle-aged-man’s story is being folded into the universe. Do you see him now. He is in the process of accepting his own death. His story is one with the Universe. He has seen the vision of the Great-Folding. He is coming to terms. The great illusion is fading before his eyes. 

“Interesting how the medicine shows and then does,” thought the man, “Or maybe it just shows what is already happening,” he re-thought. “Maybe the medicine gives us sight into what is really going on. Things are not as solid as man once believed them to be. 

He fell asleep there briefly, with the cat curled on his head. He dreamed of the band that he and Dan had spoken of the night before. In the dream, the man (our musician) was playing the fiddle. He was not playing very well, dear reader. He was trying to play a Bob Wills tune and he just wasn’t finding the right notes. In fact, he wasn’t even sure that he was playing the right tune. The band stopped to regroup. 

“It’s good for me to struggle like this with this instrument in front of people,” the musician said to his band members. “It’s good for me to struggle like this in public with this instrument in my hand.” 

The struggling musician needed some fresh air. He made his way out the door. He crossed the threshold. A group of people were approaching the building just as he was walking out the door. They were a rowdy bunch. Tall red boots and colored furry purses. and the dreaming musician remembered that this rehearsal was taking place in what was officially an AA meeting. One lady with really skinny legs walked right past him.

And then the dream was over…

The man woke up with the cat on his head. Eli was still perched up there on the pillow, providing a pleasurable pressure against the man’s head. The man shifted. The cat shifted. They both lay there in bed, the man and the cat. “I am pleased with my form,” said the man deep within his heart. The man sensed a deep abiding presence within himself. 

“Who is this “I” who is pleased with the form?” A voice from the East appeared. 

“Oh no, thought the Editor. Whose face of ancient wisdom will I now appropriate for this role?”

“What ‘role’ are you referring to?” asked the Mother?

“Mother? What will it be like when I see through the veil? How will I find myself supported if I allow this death to continue.

The editor wondered if he’d gone past the point of no return.

“Mother? Have I gone past the point of no return?”

The cat dozed on the man’s head. “Will I get up?” he wondered. He lay there with these stories that have been recounted to you popping up here and there in his consciousness. He lay there, sometimes experiencing moments of pure stillness, The great I AM, the Presence. He lay there waiting, saying “yes” to Life, making this life an offering. He lay there in simple acceptance of the great What-Is. He lay there waiting for the moment when the Life that was being lived through him would nudge him from under the covers.

As he lay there he thought of the woman from Bermuda. The woman that was once his lover. The woman that he visited every weekend for three months all that time ago. He remembered the passion they’d shared. He was expecting her arrival. “How will she appear?” he wondered. This woman he had worshipped. His Goddess of the cool Atlantic. 

He had reconciled himself with what he had acknowledged as some kind of obligation to include her, but he knew that was not the Way. So, there she had waited—not her, but the memory of her. She had showed up powerfully in the Love that he had made with the Univers. It was not that the man had used her image in the great masturbation. However, there had been a release as the love that they made was integrated back into his being. 

The passion that he had shared with this beautiful being had revealed to him another aspect of his Self.  With the woman from the Atlantic, he had felt a part of his being with which he had never shared with another human being. She had given him a great gift. This woman shared herself with the man, and he was grateful. He accepted their relationship as the gift that it was.

The sprinklers sprinkled in the backyard sancturay. The quiet in the great kitchen was profound. There was only the sound of the man’s fingers on the keys. The sound that once belonged to his wife.

But then there was this woman from Bermuda. He wrote songs for her! (and yes the man had also written songs for his wife). 

The man felt some kind of competition going on between these two characters in his story.

“Is there a way that I can recognize these women as fellow beings as I examine this area of my life? How can I acknowledge you sisters? And who is it that I am addressing now? How do I address the memory of these two old lovers as they are now in each other’s company?”

The woman from Bermuda. He met her at a treatment center—a treatment center just outside of Santa Fe. 

“Okay, bud, here we go,” said the attractive woman in the tank top. She was now leaning against the piano. Are you ready to celebrate your life and your death? Are you ready to have compassion for this man who is doing the best he can to make sense out of this consciousness experience?”

“Yes. You smell good,” said the editor to the smiling woman in the straw cowboy hat. The editor was apparently in need of a new girlfriend to get through this bit from the past!”

They smiled at each other. They kissed. They embraced. The editor felt her sensual presence in his inner being.

“Are you the one I’ve been meeting in the grass?” said the editor. “Are you the one I felt today as I pushed into those trees in the West. Are you? The beloved muse? 

The Bermudian was a beautiful black woman with curly hair. It was love at first sight for the man…

“Yes, we will honor that love. Let’s call it what it was. There was a love that brought these two people together. There was a purpose. There was a great joining of souls. There were ripples made in energy fields. Dreams were fulfilled. Dreams were crushed. Yes there was a great crushing as the man tried desperately to live out his dream of falling in love again.

Can he now say, dear reader, that it was love? I know that you cannot justify me. I would not ask that of you. But, I will ask anyway, maybe even rhetorically of you. 

Is that okay? Is it okay to recognize the Love in a relationship that didn’t last? 

“What will last?” said the editor’s new girlfriend, “God she smelled so good. Just like the grass.”

Can the writer recognize the love that he and the mother of his children had? Can he recognize all the love that he has experienced, the love that no longer exists in the form that it once held? Can he recognize the changing forms of love. “What was it that F. Scott Fitzgerald had told him in that framed quote at the cabin? It was something about how love never comes the same way twice—kind of like Eli never curled up with him twice the same way. He was a novel creature, full of novelty and unpredictability. Eli, the one who may never curl up on the man’s head again. 

The absolute materialist will say that the human is incapable of novelty, that she is a slave to her selfish genes. But, this is not sufficient for….No. I’m not going to talk about what the absolute materialist will say. There is a red line under that whole sentence. I’m going to take that hint from the evolving AI, that intelligence, created by us, which is now beginning to communicate with us. The same Intelligence that just allowed me to stay away from telling you, in first person voice what the absolute materialist would say. Because (there’s the “because.” Let’s see what happens here). Because giving voice to the absolute materialist may just be a way of sidestepping what’s really trying to be born here.

The midde aged man sent a message to the woman from Bermuda just days ago. It was not the first time that they had been in touch. She had recently contacted him as he was heading out for his hitchike

The message that he sent to the woman from Bermuda was this:

I had never discovered the divine feminine in my Self, which is why I had no choice but to worship you.
which is why I had to worship Her in you.
That is not what a man should (could) do. A man could discover the divine feminine in his Self so that he can truly love the woman he is with. I failed to love you in that way.
yesterday, I became a tree g/Goddess and communed with my sisters. This morning my divine Mother made me some oatmeal as she sang, you're a lovely boy...a lovely boy...a lovely lovely lovely lovely boy.
I don't know where that's going! lol...but today it feels like a very healing way to be.

She never responded. And the writer felt quite at peace with that. And the editor felt quite at peace with that. The editor had not checked in with his girlfriend on the matter.

“Sweetie,” are you okay with me spending this time in reflection on my former lovers?”

“Sweetie? She smiled, “Why we barely know each other, my dear,” she said with a playful southern drawl. This lady really was fun. She took off the cowboy hat and laid it on the piano. She pulled the man in close and kissed him.”

“Okay, hmmmm,” the man cleared his throat as he felt something rising from his root chakra. “I guess we’re okay then,” he smiled cute and shyly because that’s how she made him feel. He knew they’d just met, but she made him feel loved. She was giving him the attention that he needed right nowi. It felt that She already knew his deepest Being.

She had not responded. The man was okay with that. He felt truly comfortable. He wondered if he would be truly comfortable in the future. Would he be truly okay if she never responded? 

As best he could tell, he wanted her to be happy. He truly wanted her to get what she needed.  The man did not need her to respond. He only wished her well.

It was true, possibly, that he had worshipped her. He had poured out all the passion that he wasn’t allowed to express with the mother of his children. The mid-aged man was married to a woman who was not attracted to men. She claimed that she was attracted to the middle-aged-husband, but the husband did not sense that his wife was attracted to him. The wife told the man how much she loved him. She tried to believe in the man…...

“Sweetie,” said the man to his new girlfriend, “Do you have a name?” 

“Oh wouldn’t you just love to know my name?”

“Was that a spirti of seduction?” joked the man with his new girl. The editor really liked this woman. She was moving.

Yes, the mother of his children appeared to the man as passionless before him. And worse yet, she seemed to be averse to his masculinity. She said that she was attracted to only one man, but the husband suspected that his wife was actually attracted to no man. The husband was the one man that she claimed to be attracted to, but the husband never felt attractive in her presence. 

It’s not that the man needed to call his ex-wife names right now, or classify her as one thing or another, he was just trying to recognize something that had really happened in his life. He was trying to acknowledge where he had come from.

“Name calling,” said the muse from the West, “You mean like ‘lesbian bitch?”

“Well, I suppose that it is true. In my angriest moments I did call her names like that. And I felt very, very angry toward her. I felt violence toward the woman. I often felt that I hated that woman. I felt crushed by her. I felt enraged. I felt controlled. I did not feel loved. I did not get what I wanted. I could not give her what she wanted…There! Is that what you wanted to hear? Is that what you were looking for?”

“I’m just looking for you in here,” said his muse. 

The editor breathed in
The editor breathed out
Just like his friend Thic Nhat Hanh had shown him

The Bermudian Goddess, the mother of his children, and his new girlfriend were having a powow as the writer and the editor watched their insides coming out. A caring retrieved the three pillows from the writer’s room. She placed them on the kitchen floor in front of the sink. The writer sat, wanting to give Life enough room to help him see this for what it was. He wanted allow Life the room to be honest with him.

“Let’s try it this way. Let’s start in a way that may be totally unrelated and see if we can circle back,” said the muse. She had a serious air now, like she was about to take care of some business that she was very familiar with. She was confident in her acceptance that she was uncertain of how this would finally play out. 

The writer tried to read Father Daniel Berrigan’s autobiography once. 
He enjoyed it in short doses.
The editor wondered now what he would see if he reopened that book.
Was there a Universal story in there?

Daniel Berrigan, a catholic priest. May 1968: Berrigan and eight friends, The Catonsvill Nine, steal draft notices from a government building. There they are! Can you see them? They are lighting those draft notices on fire! Right there on the lawn of that government building! They doused those draft notices and set them on fire. 

Berrigan’s autobiography lead back to brother TNH in a book call the “The Raft is Not the Shore,” a dialogue between Father Berrigan and Thich Nhat Hanh. 

The introduction to that particular edition of “The Raft is Not the Shore” was written by none other than Bell Hooks. 

Bell Hooks is an author that I was introduced to by my ex-wife as we became “progressive liberals.” 

Bell Hooks is much more than a progressive liberal. And this is how I have, once again, found myself in this first person voice. So maybe we can just leave it at that for now.

So now, here I am in this first person voice, which actually feels quite vulnerable right now. Here I am, facing North, looking into the great mirror, my generative nurturing North staring right back at me, and I feel very exposed, and I’m thinking about getting naked to type this section. Eli is scratching at the door and mewoing loudly.

Getting naked is something I seem to do when I take the medicine. I have not taken any medicine today, but maybe I can still get naked to some effect. So here goes.

Where was I?

Or rather, where do I start? Maybe it’s time for another moment on the pillows.

The middle-aged man met the woman from Bermuda at the treatment center in Santa Fe, New Mexico. It was love at first sight. He loved the way she talked. It was as if he was meeting Bell Hooks(There we go). She was beautiful and very intelligent and he loved her accent which hovered somewhere between New Mexico and the United Kingdom out there in the cold Atlantic. 

The writer stood there naked in the kitchen, four books covered his….his genetalia…

“why does he keep using that word, Mom.” Said a little girl. She was on her knees at the round table in the kitchen of the great house. She was coloring with a blue crayon. 

“It’s okay sweetie, let your father be your father, that’s just who he is today.” Sometimes he gets manic, and we are trying to live with that. We are trying to love that. We are accepting that.

“Manic,” said the writer.

“How does that word feel in your Being?” asked the muse. She was in a soft light. He could see her smiling face through a soft and hazy light.

The floor was cold on the writers feet as he rose to go to work. His alarm went off in his bedroom. 5:30AM. His alarm sang a song to him:

In the eye of the hurricane
You are always still
In the eye of the hurricane
You are always still

His song
The song that he needed to hear just now.

The middle-aged man fell in love at a treatment center. He did not expect the love, but he was looking for it. He truly was looking for love, this is true about the middle-aged man at the treatment center. He is desperately hungry for love. 

“Desperately hungry for love!” cried the beautiful Muse from the West. “That’s what I was looking for. Now there’s a Universa story. That story is fuck-able. That’s the story that’s eating everybody up! Son of a bitch!” she cried.

The man who went to the treatement center truly was looking for love. But, truthfully, the middle-aged-man did wonder if he would fall in love there. He confessed his attraction to his male roomate. There was another girl named Dorothy that he also shared energy with. The man liked it at the treatment center. He fell in love with himself there.

And then, the love that he’d stirred with Liana echoed back to him. Liana called the man and his heart lept with joy. Liana called him. It was one of the happiest moments of his life.

He fell in love with Liana at the treatment center. He asked her for books and she gave them to him. He read them with a true passion for the literature that she had handed him AND he read them with a true passion for this woman who had handed him the literature. “My Absolute Darling” and “Americana”…the names of the books that she gave him. Devoured in days.

With all his spare time the man read the books. Other people were falling in love with Liana as he read the books. The man tried to be very careful with his love for her. They were at a treatment center for God’s sake! He knew that it wasn’t supposed to happen like this. 

It was never appropriate for him to approach her with his love at the treatment center, and it was not anything that was absolutely essential, because the man had seen himself fall in and out of love with many other women over the course of his marriage, Liana was not the first. That’s just honest. Is that honest?

“That’s seems pretty honest to me,” said the Muse, “I watched you fall in love with me in the course of about an hour. You’re pretty easy, aren’t you baby. I bet it’s easy to get you up. You’re so easy.”

At the treatment center, the man was not only falling in love. While at the treatment center, the man activelty engaged in a grieving process. He beggan to grieve for  the loss of his marriage. A process that started before Liana ever arrived, and that is a truth that the man was grateful for as he stood naked in front of his laptop. 

“Why?” asked the muse? “What if it wasn’t that way? What if Liana arrived, you fell in love with her, and then you started the grieving process? Would you be disqualified if that were the case? I think you feel what I’m getting at, don’t you?”

“Yes, I see,” said the man, “who was apparently still invested in proving himself to be worthy of love.”

As the middle-aged-man moved away from his marriage and children, possibly the most selfish act of his entire life, he tried to justify himself. The middle-aged-man tried to justify himself because he did not believe that he was worthy of Love. He did not know that he was Love. The middle-aged-man was desperately looking for love outside of himself.

“Thank you!” cried the editor’s Muse Beloved, that sexy thing in those jeans “Now we are joining with the the Universal again.”

“The editor loved it when a woman talked like that.”


The writer’s alarm clock sounded again, for he had not switched it off the first time. The song kept singing to him. The song that he needed to hear.

In the eye of the hurricane you are always still…

There’s another lyric in that song, it goes like this.

“’She said, you cannot walk on water,’
With a tongue sharp to kill
But in the eye of the hurricane 
You are always still

The writer at the great Island in the kitchen acknowledged the importance of those lyrics. The woman in that verse was his ex-wife. She was the one who told him that he could not walk on water. She was the one who made him throw his light saber away. She was the one who prevented him from doing miracles. 

“So there’s still some anger there?” That’s what I’m hearing. The muse was quiet and concerned now. She hugged the man. The man sensed no sexual energy in this hug. It was only caring and compassionate. It was simple. It was full of a love that the editor needed from a woman.”

“Thank you,” he said, as she released him, “Thank you very much.” He breathed more easily now.

The middle-aged-man at the treatment center was obligated to only speak well of this woman, the woman that he was married to. And he continued to only speak well of her the whole time that he greived. He refrained from any negative talk of the woman who had bore his children.

The man at the treatment center felt helplessly crushed by his wife. He fantasized about leaving. But, he knew he could never leave her. He knew that he would die if he left her. Leaving would be the most selfish thing ever. How would he survive if she thought poorly of him? This mane believed that leaving his wife would be the same as giving up on himself, and he was quite certain that he would die if he ever left her. 

He felt justified by the marriage. It was the last shred of evidence that he was a good man. This man who had forsaken the God of his youth, he still possessed the wife of his youth. The people at the fundamentalist church had told him that they would never make it if they left. Were they right?

They clung to one another there at the foot of the rockies in Eastern New Mexico. They clung to one another in a way that did not feel like love. Sometimes he hated her the most of anyone in the world. He blamed her. He had a fantasy once about smashing her head in with a lamp. He wrote it down in a journal, he knows that he did, but to this day the man could not find that journal entry. He wanted to tear it up and throw it away. She so often disgusted him. The truth is that he was embarassed to be with her. The truth is that he was afraid of her. He feared her argument. He feared her reason. He feared the way she turned him on himself. He hated the way she was always right, and she was. He feared how she made him look at himself. He feared himself as a man. He felt that there journey into feminism combined with her aversion to men made him the enemy. He feared her father. He sensed her father, the abuser in her presence.”

“Or was it that he sensed the abuser in himself?” Asked the muse.

The one who abused her lived with them. The one who abused him lived with them. The man slept with her abuser, her father, nearly every night for twenty years. And likewise, the woman slept with the middle-aged-man’s father, the deep clown character. 

The man made love to her father every time he slept with the wife. The man felt crushed by her. The man felt abused by her. “Gaslighting,” that’s the name he’d found to describe what he felt that she did to him. 

Gaslighting: a situation in which the abuser convinces the one who is abused that he/she is insane. The man felt this gaslighting going on even before he had read about what it was. “Is this enough honesty? Is this honesty? There is obviously some real pain still here. Is this what I got naked for? Holy Shit!” exclaimed the writer.

The writer bent over and touched his toes, putting his hamstrings on stretch.

“Need a hug?” asked the muse of her lover.

“Oh, we are lovers now,” joked the editor.

They held each other closely before the editor returned to his task.

“Smoke’it while it’s here,” sang the sweet smelling muse.

This is the pain with which he went to the treatment center in Santa Fe with. These are the things that he never spoke while he was there. The man at the treatment center was there for a reason. They called that place “trauma camp.” The man did not end up at trauma camp by accident. The Universe was out to help him.

This was the man who did not kill the dog. He also did not bang on the door. Let me list the things I did wrong. Let me list the things I did right. If the scale tips the right way, then do I deserve to be loved?

“Do you know that you are loved?” The Muse spoke up from within.

“How could I know the answer to that question?” answered the editor.

“Why do you have to answer my question with another question? Avoidance?” chirped the muse. she was deeply embedded in the humus now.

“I think that I am beginning to understand how loved I am,” said the editor with a sadness that came from reaching middle age with so much suffering still on the surface.

“Is that where that sadness comes from?” asked our Muse. “Are you sure about that? Do you think that you are behind on some curve. Do you think that you are being graded on your awakening. Is that what I’m hearing? Do you feel like you’ve wasted your life? Do you feel that you have done something wrong? Is this how you would like to live? Or would you prefer a deeper way of Being?”

“I prefer a deeper way of being, my Muse.”

Two years of couples counseling. This is the phrase that the middle-aged-man said when he wanted people to know that they had really tried. Then he’d mention all the work that the couple had done for themselves individually. All the books that they’d read. He’d mention how much he respected his wife. He wished her well.

“How can we possibly hate this woman so much?”

Who said that?

The writer stood in the kitchen facing North. What was that he’d just heard. He was genuinely curious. He was facing this writing naked, so cold, yet so unafraid. Eli scratched on the door time and time again providing him with some comic relief. Eli, The cat who goes full circle over and over again, out through the garage and in through the back door. “What a cute little guy,” thought the man. Seriously, that’s exactly what he thought. And he laughed as he opened the door for Eli every time.

“maybe this is kind of like therapy,” thought the writer, “Maybe this story isn’t coming out all at once.”

He gobbled down two maraschino cherries and a bite of lime from his limeade from the night before. A welcomed treat.  He hoped Dan didn’t come home as he sat naked in the kitchen. 

He turned to sit on the pillows, giving Life another chance to live through him.

The man began his grieving process at the treatment center, but he was still not ready to let go. He tried to reenter his life. The man’s wife and oldest daughter came to pick him up from Santa Fe. He would try again to be true to his life. 

He had known such happiness at the treatment center. “Surely I can just bring this happiness home with me,” the man thought. But he could not. His wife drove them home. The man lay down in the back seat of the black Dodge minivan. Can you see him suffering? What his happening in the heart of this man? Do you see the fear in this ones eyes? Can you see him there huddling in the back of the van? What is he saying? Can you see his lips moving? 

A mantra formed in the mans heart and came from his mouth. A mantra of hope:

“Maybe there is a future in which I am happy.
Maybe there is a future in which I am happy
Maybe there is a future in which I am happy

He repeated the mantra over and over again as the crushing fear and depression threatened his very life. Just a sliver of hope. The “maybe”. That would have to be enough for now dear reader. That sliver would be just enough hope to bring him to his next appointment with a Universe who was out to help him.

“Ahhhh, now there’s a through-line!” Cheered the beautiful muse, “This is a story about a man making peace with a Universe that is out-to-help-him. Now that’s lovely. And this is how we see our lives. This is the way we meet all beings. This is the practice, my dear. You are doing great. Are you able to continue now, or do you need a rest.” 

“Let’s keep trying,” typed the editor.


The man made an honest effort to reengage his life. But, the coldness that he sensed from his wife was overwhelming. He walked around the college-cow-town, where the dust had turned the sky red so many years ago, with lightning-flash visions of suicide. He saw himself in a vacant lot blowing his head off just like Brother Jack had done in his song so many years ago. He retrieved his grandfather Vince’s single shot shotgun from the attic. He had no ammunition. He went the the Wal-Mart. He stood in front of the boxes of shotgun shells. He did not know if he had come to just look or if he was there to buy. He was confused. He wasn’t quite sure. But, there he stood, one way or another, perusing ammunition for the shotgun that he’d taken down from the attic in the garage above his wife’s ceramic studio.

His wife’s ceramic studio. That was the best gift that he’d ever bought for her. A Shimpo Whisper wheel, and a Skutt kiln. He was so happy to buy her that gift. There had been good times between them. There had been many, many good times. They had loved one another. They had brought beautiful life and love into this world with their children. They had friends. They had common friends with whom they had sat and laughed and explored the mysteries of life. They had some satisfying sex. They had satisfied one another. 

“Just look what the writer does here,” said the Muse to the editor. “Listen carefully. Hold my hand here. Let’s listen together. Are you ready? Here we go. I love you.”

The dying author is now attempting to do the impossible. He is allowing the miracle to happen. He can feel it now. The miracle of holding the suffering and the joy simultaneously. He is remembering that this marriage that is no more was also full of joy and discovery and curiosity, and a ceramic studio where his wife was nurtured by the earth that she formed in her hands. He remembers her joy in the receiving of that gift.

The writer recognizes that Life in its fullness is presented to us, and we must learn to accept it all. We must learn to die the death. We must learn to receive the resurection. We must transcend. We must go deeper. We must do these things if we want to be part of the great Coming-Together. If we want to be a part of the Great Turning.

If we are to be a part of the Great Turning we must start by sending a message to our ex that we know may be returned with less than love and acceptance. The author understood that his calling was to walk in this fullness, holding the joy and the pain together. The author acknowledged his pain as he stood there, his thoracic back was aching and his body struggled to maintain a posture that was conducive to energy flowing through, he had learned this from yoga. He had learned to touch his toes and put his hamstrings on stretch as a practice of presence. He knew that writing, in this moment, had very little to do with writing and everything to do with how to live with himself. The question presented itself again. And for this musician, it was all about tone. Tone and form.

Here was the question that came back to the writer:
“How will I live with myself?”

 
The author took in a deep breath, letting all the energy flow through him. He turned and looked out the window, into the darkness, toward the trees in the backyard, in the direction of the house under construction where the exceptionally strong men had used their shovels and driven the front loader just days ago. The author was doing his work right now. Maintaining form, saying “yes” to this process as he made peace for himself. Also, dear reader, he hoped that he was making some peace for you. Yes, the writer had not forgotten of you. In fact, he now drew comfort from your presence. This writer who had died some deaths in order to ascend (or descend) the great spiral. The dying author who has come full circle many times, leaving form behind, then circling back, finally witnessing a great integration in his own being. 

The miracle of integration. This is what he was witnessing now as he wrote. He was witnessing the kindness of the Universe in the deaths he’d died. What he once thought would kill him….well it did actually kill him…He died the death, or he was still dying the death. I guess we’re just dying the death until we die. it’s very difficult sometimes to tell about these things, just when you think it’s over, just when you think you’ve arrived, the Trickster from the East shows up and you realize what a big joke it was that you’d fooled yourself again in a way that was just different enough to trick you. 

But, here, this one still stands. He did not actually die. He did not kill himself, although he feels that he can understand those who want to be dead for long periods of life. The writer has lived that in pieces. Here he stands, maintaining form and witnessing this miracle in process. 

What stage was this being at?

“Ken Wilber, paging Ken Wilber. Do you have a device, Mr Wilber, a device by which to measure this middle-aged-man’s stage on the enlightenment scale?”

Ken spoke up, “It appears to me, after having done a lifetime of research on this subject that measuring someones level of enlightenment (although we do have a specrum of general descriptions about the transcendance of consciousness) is kind of like gathering information on the state of of electrons. We are limited in our capacity to inquire directly about matters such as these. Also those electrons are not on a linear path. Much care must be taken. Much time with our faces buried in communion with the grass. In other words, it’s time to integrate the practice of Shamanism (Paul Francis, Therapeutic Shamanism).

“Did you say appropriate Shamanism?” said a critical voice.

“No, I did not say that we should “appropriate.” I said “integrate. Please just read Mr. Francis book and do the exercises if you are curious.

What stage was the middle-aged-man in? He was at the stage where he was saying “yes to Love.” He was saying “yes” to a deep and abiding Love. He was asking this Love to come into his being. He hoped he was ready to have Life lived through him. How do the AA folks say it, “Living Life on Life’s terms.”

There was a song that he’d written recently. The lyrics went like this. It was short and simple

The things I’ve seen
The people I’ve known
The deaths I’ve died
The seeds I’ve sown

I give way 
where way is to be given
I let go, 
let Life do the livin’


And so it came to pass that the Bermudian Goddess…

“I don’t think that we’re supposed to call her that anymore,” said a scared voice.

The Muse Spoke up, “We’re calling her the Bermudian Goddess right now because this is how the man saw her then,” She said dryly but not in a sweet way “It’s going to be okay, sweetie,” she stuck out her bottom lip to the editor which somehow communicated comfort to him, as if his fear was understandable. He was held.

“God, I love this Muse! She is…What is she…She’s a lot.”

The Goddess was still at the treatment center. She used her one hour phone time to call the middle-aged man, not once, but twice. And so it went that the second time Liana called, the middle-aged man said “yes” to Life in the best way that he knew. 

It had been his dream to fall in love again. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who wanted him. He wanted to fall in love with a passionate woman. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who was interested in penises. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who would call out his name. He wanted a woman like Liana.

And it was in this way that, over the next days the man planned the day and the hour. He planned the moment when he would say goodbye to his wife. 

His youngest two children were involved in a performance of the Addam’s Family musical. Sunday was the final day of the three day run. The man would tell his wife before the show, but after his children had left to put on their makeup.

The children left for the show. The man worked up his nerve to do what he knew he could never do. Finally after two (or was it three?) trips around the block he turned toward the house. Can you see him? Can you witness this great event. This man is about to do the most selfish act of his entire life. He will go through with all of this because it is the only way that he can imagine to save his life. He has given himself to a love affair. He wants the love affair to save him. He wants it to be the answer to all of his pain.

And it will be. For a time. It will be a form that he holds for a brief moment. Then the form will pass as consciousness continues to emerge.

The man is standing in the living room. The mother of his children enters. The man meets her eyes. These next words will change his life forever. He knows this. 

“I’ve come as far as I can go in this marriage. It’s time for me to learn how to take care of myself.”

Okay, well, we need to talk about…

“No.” the man interrupted. “There’s nothing to talk about right now. I’m leaving.”

The musical was absolutely incredible. The man had never seen and probably will never see again a highschool production with such greatness. His son played Gomez and his daughter played pugsley. He did not sit with his wife. He sat in one place wathching the show. She st in another. He laughed. He cried. It was definitely better than Cats (the movie that he’d seen recently…the one with the teardrop in her eye and the snot on her lip…that’s for later….it’s a glimpse into something we saw during a journey with the medicine).

Okay…let’s go ahead and try and talk about the teardrop now…I don’t know…I’m exhausted…I think I need a shower…

Can anyone tell about the tear drop in Cats?

Thank you, Life for your nudge out of bed this morning. I know that I needed this. 7:05AM


Day 9
8:05 AM

Today, everything being sacred, I find it much harder to throw things away. I accept this as part of the journey. Now I understand hoarders. They are these people who acknowledge the sacred nature of all matter, and therefore are unwilling to throw things away. Perhaps. Perhaps.
 
If everything goes as planned, in a short while my four children will arrive (Anna, Ethyn, Joseph, and Emma). They say they have Christmas presents for me. Sacred matter given from one human to another. I go forth into this world. I have given thanksgiving and Praises to the Almighty in the backyard. I have fed the cats. I have gathered my sacred matter. The car is fueled. The duct tape is in the car. My instruments are packed. I AM. I AM in the first person. The great What-IS. 

Off to meet the Universal Mother.
Off to meet the Universal Father.
Off to travel with the Universal Sons and Daughters.

May God bless our travels
May God fill our sight and hearing.
May God guide our steps and light our way.
May God rise up from within us and all who we meet.
May the Christ be glorified.
May the Christ be known in us.
Please take from us our lives when we have not the strength to give it away to you, Oh God.

And, Oh yes, Dave and Eileen. If everything goes as planned I will see you in Bentonville.

Day 10 
12: 39AM

The middle aged man, the son, the father sat, facing North once again. Samuel Barber’s Adagio for strings played in his ears, the sacred sound of his resurrection. He sat in his mother’s home, which in the previous hours was filled with the joyful sounds of his growing and grown children, those children who had arrived at his house early that morning bearing gifts, Christmas gifts which they had brought to their father, the man who had walked away from their mutual home just twenty months ago, the man who now lived at the Adobe style house with the Saltillo tile, the man who now sat facing North on his mother’s couch which had been turned into his bed for tonight.

The adagio ended. He sat. He breathed in the silence. As he read through the first chapters of his draft he was overcome by two things:

1.	 the gravity of the Presence that he was discovering in this process. He found himself in communion with the All.

2.	 The immensity of work that the draft would still require in order to prepare it suitably for you, dear reader. 


The man arose from his seat on the couch and moved about his mother’s home. His Children were sleeping in the two spare bedrooms. He got the couch in main living room. 

Do you see the man walking about his mother’s home. Yes, he is seeking out a quiet place for communion. It has been a big day of travel and conversation. He seeks a quiet place. 

The man repositioned the floor mat in the bathroom. He lowered himself to his knees. He kneeled deeply. His body folded, his head partially on the cold floor tile. He allowed the I AM to be, or rather, he witnessed the I AM, the Being-ness of this consciousness. 

The man was grateful for this form which, in the past, he had called the water-droplet position, sometimes imagining himself a drop of dew resting on a blade of grass. His mind, of course, wandered, but the pose reminded him of his intention. 

Yes, der reader, as he awoke from the wanderings of his mind, the pose reminded him of the possibility of simple-being. The man kneeled on the bathroom floor in his mother’s home that Friday evening. He kneeled in all gratefulness for what he had experienced during the course of the day. He was in communion with the great What-IS.

The gifts that his children brought to him that morning made him very glad. His children stacked the gifts on the kitchen table in the Adobe house on avenue Q. He opened the smallest gift first, as it was at the top of the pyramid. It was small and light. 

“It’s a zippo lighter,” he said jokingly. 

The small package was actually much lighter than a zippo lighter would have been. The father tore the paper and opened the tiny box. Inside was a small piece of unusually shaped and stained-wood. The small piece of wood had a hole in the middle big enough for his middle finger. 

This was a minimalist gift, given to him by his son, its purpose--to hold the pages of a book apart as the reader held the book in a single hand. The father, knowing the difficulty of reading in bed while trying to hold open both sides of a book with two hands understood the importance of the gift. And as he sat on his mother’s couch now, turning it over and over in his hands, he was grateful for the gift from his son. He was grateful for its simplicity. He was grateful for its function. He was grateful that his son knew that he loved to read. He accepted the unusual gift. He loved his son.

The next gift was housed in a significantly larger box, it was from his youngest daughter. “Oh, I know exactly what this is,” the father said. “But I’m not going to say,” another attempt at a joke. He loved to hear his children laugh. 

As the lid came off the box, he saw a treasure trove. There was a wood patterned capo, just what he had asked for when his youngest had inquired about what he wanted for Christmas. There was a guitar strap decorated with golden suns. And, the gift that most impressed the father, held in it’s own cloth bag, a gorgeous leather bound journal, which looked like it was deserving to carry a sacred message. 

Facing his youngest daughter, the father held the book out in front of him in both hands and bowed. “I present to you the new gospel,” he said in a lofty tone. This time his children actually laughed and the father was well pleased. His youngest daughter had often impressed him with her generosity. He was powerfully moved by her ability to find gifts that mattered to him. He was grateful for her thoughtfulness. He was grateful for her.

The next present, the largest box, had functioned as the base of the Christmas pyramid. The father casually reached out to pick it up but it was very heavy. He repositioned himself so that he could lift the dense package from the table. He tore the paper from the cardboard box which was neatly taped shut. 

He remembered that his pocket knife was clipped on to his right pocket. He grabbed the pocket knife and flipped it open, as he had learned to do as a young police officer. He cut the tape and opened the box. Inside was something that he had mentioned to his oldest daughter that he wanted while they made the cheesecake to accompany their Christmas taco-Tuesday meal. It was a weighted blanket! The daughter had already, in fact, ordered it for him as they were preparing the meal together. The eldest daughter and her husband were well pleased with themselves, as they should have been. 

Once again, in an attempt to be the cause of his children’s laughter, the father removed the weighted blanket from its packaging and proceeded to lie down in a supine position right there on the hard kitchen tile. He pulled the blanket up o his chin, and his children did laugh with their father, and the father was very glad indeed.

The father had not expected his children’s gifts to bring him such joy. And so it came to pass that the family, having completed the exchange of their Christmas gifts piled in their two little blue cars and headed for the home of the children’s grandmother.

The first several hours of the journey were covered by dense fog and light rain. The oldest daughter rode with the father with her father. The Prince of Egypt soundtrack played as they drove (It was one of the current soundtracks of his eldest daughter’s life). And so it was that the father and his oldest daughter drove East, that day toward Oklahoma City on the same roads that the father had hitchhiked  two weeks before, listening to music that contained the story of Moses. And the father heard his own story in these songs. And the father laughed and wept for joy as he saw his story in this Universal story. And he heard the depth, and darkness, and mystery in those melodies that day.

The father was able to share the depths of his heart with his daughter that day, and his daughter had a heart to hear her father, and the father was very glad. And the daughter, although she was generally a very quiet person, also shared her heart with her father. And the father felt more known by his daughter. And the father also felt that he knew his oldest daughter a little more.

The daughter shared her grief at her father’s timing in the leaving of his family, for the father had dissolved his own marriage just one month prior to her own marriage. The father asked for forgiveness that he had hurt her in this way. He asked her how he could make it right. The daughter said that she was no longer angry, although she had been very angry with the him at the time.

The man and his children stopped to eat at Subway, all four of them, and they laughed at each other’s ridiculous jokes. It was a hearty laughter that resounded throughout the Subway in the gas station somewhere along the foggy highway which lead them East toward the children’s grandmother and their belated Christmas celebration.
Editor’s note: On the editor’s timeline it was 12:05AM on January 15th , nearly three weeks after the trip that the father made with his children to Oklahoma city in the fog. The medicine ceremony ended (“let’s see,” said the editor “when did it end?” the editor tried to piece it together….the timeline was foggy, like the car ride of nearly three weeks ago, he couldn’t see  very far in his rearview mirror)…there! He had it now…the medicine ceremony ended just about thirty two hours ago on January 13th at 4pm (the details, he realized were probably not too important to his reader, but he was now in survival mode, and so he clung to the details that he found in the timeline. The details seemed to have some kind of grounding affect in his being). 

The editor had not edited or worked on his book for thirty eight hours, the longest that he’d been away from this work since he wrote that fateful email to Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave). The letter was written on December 18th, exactly four weeks ago today. 

After the end of the medicine ceremony (or the initiation ceremony as he was now calling it) he had taken a day off. He took care of practical matters. He visited the human resources department at the hospital where he was still employed but on medical leave. He turned in paper work in order to get all the money that he could from his retirement account, possibly as much as $2600. He visited the University to see about the job that he’d been offered there to teach as a part time adjunct professor, meeting with the chair of the department and Richard Schwartz, the man (his friend) he’d be assisting.

The last four days of the ceremony had involved marijuana, the substance that the middle-aged-man had referred to in his AA past as his “drug of choice.” He obtained some marijuana and a pipe from Joann. Then his inner voices began to encourage him to smoke (that inner voice being represented by the Great Mother and the beloved Muse and finally an inner spirit-shaman who encouraged him to return to the pipe much more than he was comfortable with in the final ceremony.

The marijuana helped the editor to get in touch with those hurting parts of himself. The initial smoke had much to do with him facing many of his issues that came up as a result of smoking. His twelve-step-program required abstinence. A substance was being re-introduced that he had become willing to believe was part of his problem. However, even the AA literature stated that the substance is not the problem, that is was selfishness and self-centeredness that was the problem. Therefore it seemed to the man who had attended so many AA meetings, that if the ego problem was taken care of, then the substance should not be a problem. However, these were only memories to the editor as he began to hit the pipe again. He reached out to find his old friend marijuana with a very visceral sensation that told him that this is what he needed.

And this is how the editor came to wrap up the medicine ceremony after making peace with his “drug of choice” for four days. You can see, dear reader, the risks that the editor was taking. 

There he sits, the editor. He sits in the great room with the vaulted ceiling. He is breathing. He is writing, adding new material to the text as he is clinging once again to this project. He went to bed last night with his hurting children screaming in fear. There he sits, the editor, parenting the hurting inner children that he’d become so familiar with in the last four days of the ceremony. There he sits, the editor and his “escapist” subpersonality, the one who would have him continue smoking the rest of the marijuana that he has in the closet despite the fact that the ceremony is over. But the nurturing adult is there too. The nurturing adult is caring for the escapist. He is caring for the little trembling child that appeared at the very end of the ceremony, making it known that he was still in need of comforting and help.

Yes, dear reader, there he sits wearing the snake ring that he had lost. The snake ring was returned to him by Dan as he’d slept. Dan entered. The alarm, which the middle-aged-man rarely set woke him from his sleep.

“Hey Dan,” the editor called from his bed.

“Hey bud, I found this ring in the truck. I think it’s yours. It’s your snake ring.”

Although his wounded inner-children were crying, the man acknowledged this as a gesture from the Universe. He slipped the snake ring on. He gave thanks. He went back to sleep

Another bit of information that the editor returns here to note (as he sits in the West Forest in the early hours of the morning with his laptop on his weighted blanket) is that on this day the ACIM lesson was this: “I cannot know the meaning of ________.” This is significant in the healing process because as the writer was writing the letters that morning he was professing that he did not know the meaning of these emails he was sending. He was in the process of surrendering the project. He was in the process of allowing the project to be what it needed to be for his healing. The editor knew that if he allowed this project to become just another goal with an intended end, that he may miss the true purpose of the writing project. (Can you see the editor sitting among the trees in the cold as he types on the glowing screen. Eli the cat is prowling the forest around him. Yes, dear editor, we are waking up. He sat reading his ACIM, his Rumi, and Wild Mind, allowing himself to understand his wounded children in a more helpful way. This was the generative adult sitting in the West Forest. He was there to comfort those shadows. Those outcast personalities. Rejection. Embarassment. Those outcasts who were rejected by.

Another note: the lesson for ACIM today had to do with attacks on the invulnerable self. Day 26. “My attack thoughts are attacking my invulnerability.” “
I am concerned about _______. 
I am afraid ________ will happen. 
That thought is an attack on myself.

I am concerned about this book.
I’m afraid that I won’t finish it
I’m afraid that other people won’t like it
I’m afraid that it will only expose my ridiculousness

I’m concerned about my future
What if I’m just a homeless guy in a stained olive jacket
What if I never recover
What if I have fucked this all up?

These thoughts are an attack on myself.
My attack thoughts are attacking my own invulnerability
Nothing that is real can be threatened
Nothing that is unreal exists


In the spirit of Bill’s Wild Mind, the editor was now in the process of congratulating his wounded inner-children, those subpersonalities, on the great job that they had done. He was congratulating those parts of him that had been at war for so long. He was thanking them for the job that they had done. He was giving them praise. He was also telling them that the war was over. He was telling them that they never had to go back to war. He was inviting them to add their energy to the 3d ego.

The medicines were clearing the mans body. He was re-entering the world. There had been moments of bliss as he re-entered. Then the pain that he was so familiar had returned. He spent the morning in the release of the writing project. He sent several emails out, attaching the portion of this book that had been edited up to that point. The emails were another distress call, announcing that he had completed the ceremony and that he was looking for further support. His letter to Bruce looked like this:

Good morning, Bruce

This initiation ceremony that I have been on came to a close yesterday. I share this with you for at least two reasons.

1. I acknowledge that in my past I have lacked the wisdom and depth-of-healing necessary to treat the medicine as ceremonial. Therefore, as I announce the end of this ceremony with another human being who has a context for this experience, I am making myself accountable in what I hope to be the beginnings of a new community that is arising in my consciousness.

2. As this initiation ceremony has come to an end (with great reverential joy and celebration I may add!) I find myself in awe of what I have seen. I acknowledge the sacred ceremony that I was given through the Wisdom Spirit that rose from within my being. However, as I acknowledge the wisdom that comes from within, I also acknowledge the need for wisdom to flow into this individual being from outside sources. And it is in this spirit that I feel urged to reach out in an effort to connect with a teacher/teachers who can help me to develop this new understanding which I have recently come in to.

Today, I am at peace. I reached out to receive healing from the One Source and our loving Source, She responded in a way that I could feel in my body. I felt myself receiving Her help. The help that I have needed for all my life--the help that no human, no group of humans, and no form could offer to me (although I acknowledge that this help was not separate from all the help that I have received from those  "others" and those "forms" that I have left behind). I have finally (again) discovered my own help rising up from deep within my being.

Today, as I acknowledge the strength and health found in my own inner depths I am also reaching out to those "others" who may be able to help me to develop this further. As the ceremony ended the "scared (sacred) child" in me still trembled with fear. I know there is more help that he needs. How many times, Bruce, have I had a significant spiritual experience and hoped to G_d that the suffering was over? I humbly acknowledge the depth and power of this initiation ceremony that I have completed, as I acknowledge that this healing must continue for me.

I read a book by a guy named Paul Francis, Therapeutic Shamanism. I liked how he did not call himself a Shaman. He said that he had a Therapeutic Shamanistic practice. This was the way he practiced these ancient experiences while acknowledging that the appropriation of the title of Shaman was destructive.

It is within that context established for me by Paul Francis I find myself today. I have had this profound experience in which these medicines (mushrooms, LSD, and marijuana) have opened my heart and mind to a deeper experience of reality. These medicines, in conjunction with the living Spirit that I encountered in nature allowed me to encounter a healing Being. I was embraced by this Healing. I was given visions. I was held like I have never been able to hold myself, yet this holding came very much from within myself. As I acknowledge the gift of my own power, I would very much like to encounter those "others" out there who have more wisdom, who have history and deeper understanding of these connections that I have so recently made. 

I want to be taught. I want to have more teachers. I need to know this for myself. I need to be in community where there is understanding for this. My heart longs to find brothers and sisters who know this experience.

I have left everything. That's not true. Let me try again.

I am making peace with this process of awakening. I am giving myself permission to live at the speed of life.

What is it that you said in your book? "I bow. I become hospitable? I allow the Greater Power to live life through me?" Did I miss one, Bruce? was there four? I tried to go back and find that place in your book, couldn't find it. 

Is the fourth one, living at the speed of life? 

This email is a prayer, Bruce. No, I'm not praying to you. Well, maybe that is what I am doing. What I mean is, I am reaching out to you as you are this "other" human being who embodies the Universal Christ. And your voice was a powerful companion on this initiation ceremony. This is a prayer that needs to be witnessed by another human being who has a context for what I'm saying, and your voice provided a powerful context in which my ceremony took place. This email is a prayer that I will be connected with the community that I need in order to develop this calling that I am experiencing in my deepest Being. This is more than a prayer for me. This is a prayer for all of those who are just out of reach. It is a prayer for all of us who find ourselves in a prison cell, unable to smell the grass, and the roots, and the soil.

I am making myself available.

Is there any context for this, Bruce?

Is there a place in this world for a middle-aged-man who has dropped his fishing-nets to follow the Universal Christ? Is there a place where he can learn to connect with the earth among people who have made this journey before him? Is there a place where he can work with others as they are in touch with the soil together? Is there a place where a poet and a musician can be a student and a teacher among like-minded people? Is there a place where this man can work in community and heal in community? Is there a place where this wounded child can get the healing that he needs? Is there a place where this fearful one can get the healing that he needs?

In this respect, I am a father who is trying to find a place for this inner child to heal. In this respect, I am sending out a distress call, not just for me, but for all of us who are just out of reach. For those of us who are still out here struggling.

Can you hear this distress call, Great Chief? Can you hear this, you who have dropped your nets? Can you hear this prayer? Can you hear this call? 

Is there a place for a man to go? Is there a place for this child to go? 

It is in this spirit with which I attach this incomplete draft of my most recent work. This is the work that is arising from my initiation ceremony. My hope is that it will connect me with this community that I am longing to find myself in. My hope is that someone will see that there is something genuine happening in this being and that doors to deeper healing will open, not just doors for personal healing, but doors for healing for all of us who are just out of reach.

I humbly submit this work to you, Bruce. I submit this work to you with all respect for the work that you have done that has brought healing in to my life. I submit this work to you as a Son, a Son of this Great Mother who is being held gently in her protective arms. I submit this to one of the Chiefs who has gone before me. I submit this to one who has walked away from his own form. 

I ask for your attention, Chief. I am asking for your help. I am coming to you a wounded one, one who is just beginning to understand that the war is over. I need help. I need help so that I can bring this great healing into the world that I see within myself.

Please, Chief. Help me.

I trust that you will allow this request to gently come upon your heart. For I am not in crisis today. Yet, I am speaking with the urgency needed for those of us who are still suffering and dying out here.

I will do the work, Bruce, to detach from any expectations that i have concerning this lengthy email and its attachment. 

I acknowledge that you are a busy man with a schedule of his own. 

I release this prayer into the Kosmos. 

I gratefully accept the initiation ceremony that was given to me. This great gift from a Universe that is out to help me.

Universally Yours



The response that he received from Bruce caused the editor’s wounded inner child to hurt. It was rejection that came up. Yes, it was rejection that he was dealing with. Bruce’s response caused the editor to have to begin to struggle. Here is what Bruce said:

Hi Travis, 

Thanks for your email. At this stage of my life, I'm a psychotherapist. I understand the need for the kind of community that you desire. I'm not set up to provide that.  I can be your therapist, and make a place for you in my heart, yes. My commitments at this time don't allow me the time to read manuscripts, although I did read through your opening and your email to your publisher friends, along with her compassionate and encouraging response.

 I fall into that "thru-line" preference as a writer and reader. The stream of consciousness feel often ends up, in my experience, privileging self-consciousness over Self-awareness (if I'm understanding your distinction). I will say, that as an unexpected author, I was amazed at how much more work it is to edit than to write. Editing brings clarity to what it is exactly I'm trying to communicate, and it can't be everything. The depth and quality of your experience in the medicine are unquestionable. As is your capacity to write. At some point, although it's a memoir-style, it has to be for the reader, or the reader has to be able to locate him/herself, not necessarily in your exact experience, but in your reflection on the experience that hopefully identifies something universal about Reality, and which the reader can say, "Yeah, he really gets it. He really gets me".  That's why people read I suspect.  

I hear that on your medicine journeys I've shown up as a guide or a voice? Is that accurate? I'm no Chief, however.  I'm just Bruce, offering to contain people as they suffer what's theirs to suffer and make deeper contact with the life they've been given. If that's something you're interested in, I'm happy to work with you. 

Love, 

Bruce

Ahhh yes. The editor had put his heart way way far out there and he did not feel understood. He could feel it in his body. He could feel the fear. He could feel the loss. The rejection. He knew all of this was inside him. The nurturing adult could see that Bruce was not attacking him or rejecting him. But, that is not how the wounded-children felt it. 

Concerning his writing, Bruce told him the same thing that the Naked Monk said, that he was not hearing the Universal story in the writing, that he was not getting the story of healing that he was looking for. 

“I’m a failure,” said a subpersonality. “I should just quit writing now. This is just another ego trip that I’m on. This is a joke. I’ll never finish, and even if I did it would be just a waste of time.” The editor was having a chance to work with his wounded inner-children. No medicine now. The medicine seemed to make all this work quite a bit more bearable.  

He returned Bruce’s email:

Bruce

I thank you for your participation in my prayer. 

Thank you for the time you took to read and respond.

I am truly grateful for the part you are bringing to this healing journey.

I am grateful for your gentleness and your honesty. 

I will contact you again for our next video appointment.

In all tenderness


Now, dear reader, this was not the only email that the editor had sent out. There was one to Dave and Eileen. There was one to the Animas institute (Bill Plotkin’s group). And he also sent one to a therapist, Kari Reid, the man who had counseled he and his ex-wife as their marriage was dying. 

The editor was in distress. He anxiously dreaded the arrival of these letters. More embarassment, that is what these outcast children now faced. The letters he’d written that morning were opening him up to working with his subpersonalities, those wounded ones of the psyche. Correction and Rejection, that is what they knew was coming. His wounded inner-children were hurting and afraid. The editor could hear the echoes of subconscious some name-calling. The voice surfaced, “You stupid fucking….” The editor shut the voice down.

“Who is that?” he wondered, “The one who calls names. Who is that?”

There was still present, however, the powerful presence of the nurturing adult. There was still the possibility that the nurturing adult could comfort these loyal soldiers and outcasts of his psyche. And in that possibility, the editor found strengthe and hope. “Maybe there is a life in which I am happy,” he said to himself—the same mantra that had come from his lips as he lay in the back seat of the van on the way home from the treatment center nearly two years ago. 

As he was recommitting himself to this healing process, the editor also recommitted himself to the work that you are now reading. The death of the author seemed to be a far-away dream, something made up by a delusional self-help guru somewhere. Not something that really happens. But the editor knew that those thoughts were not from his genuine Being. Those self-defeating thoughts were no from his true Self.

He returned to the story of the writer who was enjoying lunch with his kids at the gas station sandwich shop. They paid for their meal. They were just emerging from the filling station into a cloud covered Texas panhandle parking lot.

His son sat in the passenger seat of the little blue car. Inspired by his new college experience, The middle-aged-man’s son spoke in elevated tones. He spoke quickly and with much energy.

“I’ve been reading some Richard Dawkins,” said the son, “He might not be as much of an arrogant ass as we thought he was, Dad. He’s really got some good things to say.”

The father was searching for common ground. 

“Okay,” said the father, “tell me what you mean.”

The son went on to discuss Dawkin’s book The Selfish Gene, published in 1976 but still required reading in a formal education on biological evolution. The father was proud of his son’s curiosity. He was happy that his son was able to enjoy learning. 

“The common spiritual ground that we shared a while back…I’m not there any more.” Said the son, “I’ve become more of a materialist.”

The son, like the father was being folded over in the blueberry batter, leaving form behind. 

“Well, I’m proud of you, son. You are growing. You are progressing. It’s okay if we don’t have that same common ground right now. I wonder what common ground do we share?”

The two men rediscovered each other through conversation, trying to make peace in this dynamic relationship between two dynamic individuals. 

“I’m worried about you Dad. I’m worried because you don’t have Mom to take care of you any more. Whose going to take care of you?” It was difficult for him to accept the father’s latest decisions to drop his nets and surrender to the flow of life. 

“I’m not ready to go with that flow,” said the son, “I’ve got too much to get done. I’m just not in that place. I’m in school. I’ve got a life to build.”

“I understand,” said the father, “We are at different stages.”

“I mean, I could understand if you were my age,” said the son, “Maybe I could understand you taking some time out. But, I don’t understand you doing what you are doing at this age. “What are you going to do? How are you going to survive? You don’t have anyone to take care of you now.”

“You know, son, when I left your mother I told her exactly that. I told her that it was time for me to learn to take care of myself. I think I’m in that process. I’m learning how to live in a way that suits me. I don’t have the answers to those questions. I wish I could tell you, but I just can’t. I hear your concerns. I am listening.” 

The father continued. “Son, I love you just the way you are. You don’t have to see things my way in order for me to approve of you. You have my blessing. I see you, and I like what I see. You are a young man. I see your heart. You are strong. You are powerful. 

He went on as he wanted to affirm his son, 

“You are building the container to hold the substance of your life (Richard Rohr, Falling Upward). You are in the first half of your life. I trust that you will find your own way. This is a natural process and you are fully engaged. I love you. You have a compassionate, kind, caring, and nurturing heart. You will do what is right for you. I know that you are on the path to your own awakening. Here we are right now, in this moment, awake together. I am so proud of you son. You are so smart and so insightful. So curious. You make me so proud, son. And you don’t have to think like I do to earn my love. Do you hear what I’m saying? You already have my love. You have my unconditional positive regard. You have my blessing. You have your father’s blessing, and I couldn’t take it away even if I wanted to. Because your true blessing comes from within. The true Father’s blessing is one that cannot be revoked. 

The man began to reflect, “My own father has often revoked his blessing for me. It has been a very painful process. He has given me his blessing many times. However, As he encountered his own wounded child within, he tried to revoke his blessing with shame and violence. Your grandfather was never held like he needed to be, son. That still causes him a lot of pain and suffering. So he gives his blessing and then he takes it back. That is hurtful to me. I do not want it to be that way for you. 

My father is a hurting man. He is a suffering man. Because of the years that I have tried to reconcile with my own father, I understand that the blessing I give to you today cannot be revoked. Even if I go crazy and try to take it back someday, this is the blessing that cannot be revoked. Do you hear me, son? It’s okay for you to leave our common ground behind. It’s okay to leave form behind. That’s how we grow.”

“I hear you,” said the son.

They continued their discussion as the father lead them into a discussion about spiral dynamics.

The father breathed into the present moment. It was difficult for him to surrender the common ground that they held several months ago. There was a gap between them emotionally. The father allowed acceptance to rise up into this gap. 

While recognizing the suffering of his own father, The man was still grateful for all that he and all of his ancestors for the gift of life; He was grateful for the opportunity to have this conversation with his own son. Praise be to the ancestors as they have empowered us in our journey up the great snake, the Great Serpent who spirals into the infinite multi-verse.

After several more hours of conversation between the father and son, the two blue cars diverged from the great toll road and onto Eastern Avenue. They turned, one after the other into the winding and wooded streets of his mother’s neighborhood. The son and his children parked their cars along the curb of her home, a red brick house on a hill, by a creek, in a modestly well-to-do neighborhood.

The Universal Mother was preparing for them a great feast. Crackers and cheeses were laid out on the island in her kitchen when they arrived. There were also nuts and grapes and candies available there on the kitchen island. The hospitality of the Universal Mother was palpable in all their hearts, and the son gave much thanks, for his heart was filled with gratitude. The joy of the son’s salvation had been restored unto him. The family rejoiced in each other’s presence long into the night.

A red meat sauce simmered on the mother’s stove, just as it had done long ago, when the son lived with her as a boy, long before the grandchildren were even thought of. 

“It all smells so delicious,” said the son to his mother, “I am so happy to be here with all of you!” he exclaimed. And he truly was.

The Mother made a sacred salad which contained a multitude of textures and flavors. Together, the grandmother and her oldest granddaughter prepared a tangy homemade dressing to compliment the green salad. The mother spooned garlic-butter over a sourdough bread which she then broiled to a perfect shade of golden brown in her oven. 

The family joined hands around the kitchen island. Marl, the mother’s husband blessed the food that was about to nourish their bodies. The son and all the children sat eating and drinking at the mother’s long table that night. They laughed and told stories. They ate until they were full. The son had much joy in his heart. Then he became very sleepy.

The son, giving thanks to his mother for the meal that she’d prepared, got up from the table (even without excusing himself as his mother had taught him to do, but still with much thanks in his heart) and found his way over there to the couch where he covered himself with the weighted blanket, closed his eyes and allowed himself to fall into a sleep as he listened to the laughing and talking of his family. He rose after an hour and rejoined the festivities that were still under way.

The Children were happy, “maybe giddy,” thought the writer. 

Their laughing and joking continued. Trivia games were played. There were somersaults. There were sister-assisted handstands. There was wrestling. There was tickling. The father was recording the festivities with his phone as he recognized all the activities as sacred.


And then there began a great slowing down. Faces were washed and exfoliated. Teeth were brushed. Clothes were retired. Pajamas were employed. Hugs were given. Smiles were exchanged. Good nights were said. The oldest daughter and her husband retired to their room. The two youngest children retired to theirs. The mother and her husband went to their bed too. And the son was left alone in a sacred space on his mother’s couch, this son who was making peace with a Universe who was out to help him.

And so it came to pass that the writer found himself sitting on the couch, the one who recounted all the joy that had transpired on that twenty-seventh day of December in two-thousand-and-nineteen, that year of our Lord, exactly one year after the middle-aged-man had admitted himself to the hospital and been transported by ambulance to Sunrise Mental Health Hospital in Roswell New Mexico. 

But, on this  twenty-seventh day of December of two-thousand-and-nineteen the middle-aged-man was not in a mental hospital. No, dear reader, he was feeling quite well. He sat with great joy, tapping out words on his Chromebook. 

Today he had communicated to his two oldest children the story of how he had calmly declared an emergency, the emergency of the failing engines, the emergency that caused him to set down in the field that he had purchased all those years ago. 

“There it is! There is the field that I bought so many years ago!” exclaimed the father-pilot. He described to his children how he had calmly piloted the plane, how he’d managed to ease the plane down (much like Sully did on the Hudson). “I managed to set her down in the very field that I purchased so long ago, the same field that contained the treasure,” the father proudly explained.

He explained to his two oldest that he was a disciple of Christ, and that he was no longer able to hold the form that their earthly father had maintained all those years. He was able to describe his sufferings in a way that they seemed to understand on some level. The father did not sense that he was justifying himself. But he was very happy to be able to describe to them what was happening in his life. 

Of course, he could not know what his children heard when he spoke. He could not truly understand what they saw when they looked at him. But, the father knew how he had come to the place where he was now. He knew exactly how he had arrived in that field, in all truth and in all honesty. 

The prayer that he had prayed at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest had been answered. The man had seen the joy of his salvation restored. His heart was full of praise and thanksgiving. He was moving in and out of form. He sat now at his mother’s house in the quiet of the night, the children that he had raised and the husband of his daughter were sleeping in their rooms. His mother and her husband were sleeping in theirs. 

Although he knew exactly how he’d arrived in that field, he felt a satisfaction that had little to do with certitude. He sat with his fingers curled over the home row of his laptop. The laptop rested on the weighted blanket, that same gift that he had said that he wanted even after the gift was already on its way to his daughter.

The writer paused in his writing frequently. He looked around the room. A double sided fireplace opened itself to two separate living areas, one of them adjacent to the kitchen. His couch was located in the main living room where Marl’s great sports television and the leather recliners rested. 

The writer placed his hands together, acknowledging the Life that was being lived through him. He placed his thumbs on his forehead. He bowed his head toward his heart. He allowed himself to come back to the I AM. He gave room for Life to have its say through him.

The man was making peace with a Universe that was out to help him.  He closed his laptop, acknowledging the North. He placed his laptop on the small table by the couch. He went to the bathroom. He returned to the couch. He turned out the lamp. He pulled his weighted blanket over his body. He lay on his back and closed his eyes, giving thanks, giving praise, acknowledging the One Source. He allowed himself to rest. He allowed himself to be the great I AM.

Day 10
5:13AM

The single drop of dew rested upon the wide blade of green grass in the morning sunlight. The yellow light of the sun appeared to emanate from the heart of the dewdrop’s center. In the perfect stillness of the morning the water droplet sat on the green blade of grass which sprung from the earth, rooted in the soil. The drop of dew and the light which shone from its center rested there, in the coolness of the morning mountain air. A stream gurgled just feet away, a world of moving water cascading down the mountain, the inclined earth its impetus. All the unified drops of water flowed together, eddying in places. They carried sticks, formed froth, tumbled playfully over small water falls, and sometimes splashed up on the edges of the bank, then sinking into the soil. 

But the single drop of water which rested on the wide blade of grass was in motion too, inside there was movement that would have been undetectable to the human eye. The dewdrop’s form was maintained only by its own surface tension. This surface tension maintained the smooth and curving surface of the water droplet while the fluid inside the drop maintained movement. This single water droplet sat by the stream of running water. His golden heart was shining. The movement within his form was caused by the heat from the source which caused his heart to glow golden. 

Did this water droplet have desire? Did he wish anything? You may wonder, “Did he wish to join the little playful stream that moved so freely down the mountain? Did this single water droplet wish to join the One-ness of the water in the stream? Did he wish to be free from his position on the blade of grass? 

Can a water droplet wonder? 
Can a water droplet want?
What was in the heart of this little water droplet?
Maybe we should ask him?

Little water droplet, my brother!
You, with the heart of gold!
Little brother! I see the sun shining in your heart.
I see you sitting on your blade of grass.

You are not in motion as your brothers are
But I see the movement within you
I see the sun shining from deep within your being

Do you wish to join the one-ness of the flow?
Do you wish to lose yourself in that great motion?
Do you wish to run down the mountain with your brothers
And sisters?

The water droplet responded

I wish only the will of my father
If it pleases him for me to sit here
On this blade of grass
Then I will

If it pleases Him 
that the sun shines upon me

If it pleases him
to take me up into the sky
one little bit at a time
Then I am pleased

If it pleases my father
That I run down the mountain
With my brothers and sisters
Then I am well pleased, my dear friend

“But now,” said the tiny drop of water
who rested in the morning sunlight 
on the wide blade of grass

Please, stay with me here for a moment
And let us ask for the will of the father.
Together we will trust the father,
That his will be accomplished through us today

Come, sit, my friend
Rest with me for a moment
As the stream flows by over there


And then, the tiny dewdrop, 
in all his wisdom, 
prayed.

The tiny drop prayed 
Then he waited 

For the tiny drop knew that he was not separate from the stream
The tiny drop knew no alienation in himself
As the sun shined from his center
He knew that his current state of being
Was just for this moment

He knew the wisdom of the thunderhead,
For he was the thunderhead
He was the mystery of togetherness
He was the joy of salvation

For it was his simplicity
That made him so pure in heart
It was his simple devotion
That caused him to sit with such patience and acceptance

And so, dear reader, let us sit for a moment
Let us sit with this wisdom
Let us sit here for a moment with our wise brother
The dewdrop 

The dewdrop who knew
That he was no alone

The water droplet who watched the stream
And who was the stream

Come, dear reader, let us sit with our brother
Sit with us here for a moment
Become a water droplet with us
Let us wait for the will of the father.

Selah


Editor’s Note: 

The going was slow since the ceremony ended. His subpersonalities were present in his being: 

The rejected outcast was with him strongly ever since he received the email from Bruce. Also present was the one-who-rejects whose energies were devoted to protect the rejected-outcast from further injury. 

The embarassed-outcast was there too. There was a subpersonality for him one-who-protects, a dysfunctional adult who was an imposter of the nurturing adult. It was the job of the one-who-protects to keep the embarassed-outcast from embarassing himself further. 

The addict and the escapist were there too. The escapist was trying to find somewhere else to go, somewhere where he didn’t have to feel the pain. The addict thought it might be a good idea to use the medicines to go back to that state of bliss that he’d experienced in the ceremonies.

But there was hope, because the nurturing adult was present too. The nurturing adult was aware of the emotions of all these wounded children, these subpersonalities that were trying so desperately to relieve the pain that they were experiencing.

The editor awoke from a dream in which his father and his deceased grandmother were both present. The grandmother told a story that sparked great anger and disgust in his father toward his mother. The son asked his father to understand. The son looked his father straight in the eye. The father was about to blow. The son knew that look.

The editor also dreamed that he was lost in a maze. The maze appeared as an old highschool building. There was a shifting of reality in this maze. Forward movement was possible in the maze, but when he turned around to move back in the direction from which he’d come, the obstacle that he’d just traversed appeared to be much more dangerous. The obstacle appeared so dangerous that he could not imagine how he’d made it to where he was now standing. He was trapped in a maze where only forward movement seemed possible. He was cut off from where he had come from. 

The editor wakes from these dreams. His roomate from LHC is on his heart. Chad whose heart is still “over there” with his fallen brothers in arms.

He remembers Eileen’s encouragement. She said that compassion would carry him through when this task becomes daunting. He returns to her letter in his heart. He does not go back to read the letter. But he returns to what is left of the letter in his heart. He returns to his own heart of compassion. He cannot go back. He offers himself to the task at hand. He continues in his job of editing. He continues in the work to discover healing in his own heart.]

He remembers the movie Whale Rider, that little girl who humbly lead those wild-indigenous ones into their future.

ACIM lesson 27. “Above all else I want to see.” To be repeated all day every half hour at least.







Day 10
5:48 AM

A young man sat in his senior English class. At the head of the classroom stands Mrs. Hubbard. She is the only one who is interested. With deep gutteral conviction and twist of tongue, the dried lips on her weathered face recite the Canterbury tales. The seniors fall asleep. Saliva falls from the mouth of the weary young man as he wakes up from a nap.

But there is another day, a day when they are not studying the Canterbury Tales. Today they read Walt Whitman. Today the boy-man hears something. He understands. He saw it there. There it was, right there on the page, a meaning so deep that he would not stop repeating the line:

“I lean and loaf at my ease, observing a spear of summer grass.”

The single line of Whitman contained all he needed to know that day. He was moved. Or possibly, his constant anxious motion was arrested for a brief moment that day in his senior English class led by the aging sun-spotted woman. This woman who, day after day, conveyed her love, her passion for these words as she stood up there facing the class, risking the tying of her tongue and the shedding of her tears. She was a tough old woman, tough enough to watch these children come and go. Tough enough to watch these children fall asleep on their desks, and whisper to one another about who-knows-what while she stood up there in front of them, a willing vessel, willing to share the un-sharable to a bunch of dazed and confused seventeen and eighteen year olds.

And so it came to pass that the middle-aged man came to remember his old friend Walt, and his old teacher Mrs. Hubbard. “How long ago has that been now?” the man asked himself. He counted the years. “over twenty seven years ago,” he thought. “twenty-seven years.”

There was a stirring in his mother’s house. The writer, on the couch in his mother’s home, heard the voice of his youngest daughter. He heard the bathroom door open and close. He breathed in and out, several cycles. The toilet flushed. The door opened. Then there was more quiet. The silence of the following moments were a treasure, each breath a last kiss. 

He woke up this morning with Tim on his mind. He wondered if he’d be welcomed in his home. He wondered if he could stand in the presence of the older prophet, his old mentor and teacher. Tim was the man that the middle-aged man had called during his second journey with the mushrooms, the one he’d called Chief. Tim had answered many distress calls from the man over the course of more than twenty years. Now the man wondered if he was still welcome in his home.

The middle-aged-man had been reaching out to Tim recently with texts and a phone call. Tim’s response was minimal. In a voicemail the writer left Tim a simple message. “Hi Tim, I am holding form. Call me when you have a chance.” But Tim had never called. And he was very slow in response to the middle-aged-man’s texts. And when he did respond it was not the type of response that seemed to welcome any further contact. The middle-aged-man continued to reach out occasionally, trying not to let his own fear of rejection dictate how his relationships would go.

Their text exchange had looked like this: (The middle age man found himself afraid to look, afraid of what he might discover about himself if he looked into this history)

November 26th 
Disciple: “That all of them may be one…” John 17:21…Good morning, Chief!...I want to spend some time with you. I will come and play music wherever you are! LoL…Or, I will come and sit quietly wherever you are! I just want to be in your presence, Chief!

Tim: Ok I’ll let you know when I have a meeting

And then, a week-and-a-half later as the middle-aged-man was walking away from his job…

December 5th
Disciple: Hey Tim. I put my two weeks notice in at work. I am sowing myself back into the soil. I have no plan except to let God do what God will. Can I come for a visit? My last day of work is Dec 19th. I have a vision of sitting in your living room.

Tim: I’m leaving town tomorrow not sure what day I’m returning yet. Be home for Christmas. Not sure quitting your job is a good idea. Can you just take a few weeks off for the holidays?

Disciple: It’s already done…I’ll look forward to seeing you I’m not sure it’s a good idea either. I just know that I went as far as I possibly could. I do not have a grace to be in this profession any longer. It is dishonest of me to stay…God will work with me in this I’m sure. I have prayed that everything that is false in me will be burned up…Have safe travels. I wish you well, my friend.

And then ten minutes later, the middle aged man apparently feels that he needs Tim to understand more about what is going on…the distress call continued like this:

Disciple: My “mental illness” and my “calling” are intertwined in a way that I cannot understand. I have been asking for help for years now. I’ve been to 2 emergency rooms, 1 psychiatric unit, and 2 treatment centers. I’ve been asking for help my entire adult life, Tim. I’ve been trying to calmly declare an emergency for weeks now. I have taken this as far as I can come. I’m broken down Tim, and I’m trying to answer my calling in the middle of this. I need help.

I’m asking God to care for me now. I’m asking God to care for my family…I have gone through the appropriate channels. They put me on psych meds that kill my spirit…I’m at the end. I got baptized the Sunday after I talked to you. I am doing my absolute best to surrender my life and will to God. So Tim, please just ask our Father to intervene here. I’ve devoted the last year of my life to prayer and meditation. I’ve been listening. I’ve been following. I’ve been praying every day. I’ve been offering myself to God…The intesity of pain that I experience in my being when I go into these depressions is more than I can work through in this job. I cannot continue caring for others when I am sick in my spirit like this…Can you hear what I am saying? Can you feel what I am talking about? I’m not blaming anyone or anything any more. I’m just hurting beyond what I can bare in the workplace…

1 hour passes

Disciple: okay something happened. My boss didn’t turn in my 2 weeks notice yet. But she says that I’m not fit to continue in my duties. So I’m reaching out to HR and maybe declaring some kind of medical emergency. I may get fired. Maybe I can get disability. I don’t know

Tim: I understand…Praying…

Disciple: Thank you

And then, six days later

December 12th

Disciple: Hey Tim! There is a chance that I might get my old job and my office back teaching at the University. I’m giving this hope back to God this morning. I’m giving thanks to God. I’m grateful that I have seen the face of Christ again in my life. Asking God to open and shut the doors, even the ones that are attractive to me

No reply from Tim

December 16th

Disciple: Tim. I have made a deeper connection with our father. I am sensing the oneness with our father….I’ve had another profound vision of the universal Christ. I am also connecting again with the person of Jesus (Yeshua)…I’ve had the validity of my recent decisions confirmed in my heart…Tim, I accept you just as you are. I accept our friendship/relationship just as it is. I look forward to hearing your voice again and/or sitting in your presence. You show me the Christ, Tim. I am grateful for your prayers. I sense them being effective in my life. I sense your presence in my life on a daily basis…Thank you….Call me when you have the grace and the time…

Tim’s disciple sends him a song that he wrote about the Universal Christ

No response from Tim

December 19th
Disciple: Yes. We are waking up together, Chief…Good morning (blushing smiley face emoticon)…I am the son with the crazy wisom who will not go away…today I have not gone away, Chief…I cannot make any promises about tomorrow…

Tim: It’s a sunshinny spiffy day today Travis

Disciple: Oh wow….Thanks man (blushing smiley face emoticon)…

The disciple sends his Chief another Song “Time to wake up by Mike Love

Disciple: Do I need permission to be the son who is not afraid of his own shadow?

Tim: Nope

Disciple: I thank you for acknowledging (me). I accept as little or as much as your life can afford. I acknowledge your humanity. I acknowledge the suffering through which you have come to know Christ. I give you thanks for the Life that you have freely shared with me.

Tim: Welcome

And that was their last exchange which had been nine days ago.

As the middle-aged-man awoke on the couch that morning at his mother’s house, Tim was on his heart. And it was in this way that the man found himself, once again kneeling on the floor of the bathroom in the spirit of the dew drop. It is in this way that he found himself at one with the father, saying, “What time is it father?” asking his heavenly father for clear direction. It is in this way that he sought the wisdom of the dew drop, the one who was not afraid to remain on the blade of grass, the one who was not afraid to evaporate into the invisible air, the one who was not afraid to fall from the wide blade of grass and sink into the earth. The dew drop. The one who is at rest. The one who is not afraid. The one with the golden shining heart.

As the middle-aged-man read the texts that he and Tim had exchanged he sensed a desperation in himself. He sensed his own anxiety. He faced an energy in himself, “Or is that an emptiness in myself?” he wondered. “What is this that I am sensing? Is it the little boy who was not held as much or as often as he needed? Am I in touch with that father-shaped-whole in my heart? 

The middle-aged-man wondered why Tim seemed to be withholding himself. The middle-aged-man had been aware of these anxious emotions for weeks now which surrounded his relationship with his old mentor. He had just then found the courage to write about these emotions. The writer wondered if he would find the courage to reach out to Tim, who was only a few minutes away from him now, just across town. “Should I reach out to Tim? He wondered. Tim had been absent in his life for ten years. The middle-aged man had just recently reconnected with him. Now he longed to sit with him again. 

The middle-aged-man shows himself to you now, dear reader. The middle-aged-man who sat in his mother’s living room that weekend after the Christmas of 2019. 

His oldest daughter was awake. The man passed his Chromebook to her lap, sharing with her his writing about the opening of the Christmas presents and the Prince of Egypt caravan the day before. 

The man’s mother was awake now too. She sat across the living room, warming herself by the gas fire, her own tablet in her lap.

Three generations sat there in the mother’s living room. The mother’s oldest typing. The father’s oldest thumbing through facebook on her phone. The middle aged man decided to disengage from his screen and enjoy his family’s presence while he was able. He flipped the screen down. He sat there in the half-lotus, on his mother’s couch, in the presence of these two most important women. 7:05AM

Day 10
8:45AM

Disciple:  Good morning, Tim. I have arrived in OKC. I seek your company. I seek your friendship. I pray that we can find a way to make an exchange while I am here. I demand nothing from you. I seek your life giving words and company. I offer my life to you. I am prepared to accept as much or as little time and Presence as you have to offer. I will be available after Monday morning. Peace to you, my old friend.

The disciple sat in the living room next to his mother’s kitchen. He watched and listening and typed as his oldest daughter and the Universal Mother prepared a breakfast of bacon, eggs, hash browns, and toast. 

He was doing his best to release the outcome of his most recent text to his old friend, Tim. A response in the negative may be difficult to accept. But, this was his calling, just as he had texted his ex-wife, asking for her friendship, he now reached out to his old friend, Tim. Tim seemed to be making himself distant for some reason, but he could not assume that was actually the case. The disciple was ready to face the great What-Is. Or so he hoped he was ready. “You can never be sure that you are actually ready,” said the disciple.

Day 10 
10:20

On that morning, as the man allowed Life to be lived through him, he sang many songs with and for his children. He sang for his mother. He sang for his son-in-law. He shared with his son in law the message of the serpent, the spiral dynamic. 

Who is the enemy?
Satan?
Love your enemy?
Love Satan?

“Yes, son. This is where we find ourselves, in this impossible situation.”

He rejoiced in his mother’s Christmas Cactus and in her purple flowering African violets. 

He shared with his son-in-law the secrets of Rumi and Hafiz and their whirling dervish. He described the passionate love affair that they shared with the Creator and the Creation, all in one and one in all. 

This is how he waited patiently for the return of the text that might never come. This is how the disciple acknowledged that father-shaped-hole that was in his own heart. He acknowledged his own insecurities around the man whom he had once called his father in the Spirit. His teacher. His mentor, His spiritual father. So it was that he prepared himself for the next sacred breaking of the heart, and so it was that he communed with God as he offered his friendship, once again to this man who may or may not be interested or willing to meet with him.

The truth was that Tim had never done anything deliberately to hurt the middle-aged-man. When the middle-aged man showed up unannounced at one of Tim’s prophetic meetings just months ago, Tim  immediately invited him to participate in his ceremony, asking the middle-aged-man to retrieve his guitar from his car. He invited him to sing and play without question. So what was this fear that the man was facing around his old friend?

Editor’s note: Above all else I want to see

The middle-aged man had often feared, in the ten years of his absence from Tim, that he himself had been an unholy influence on Tim’s family, that he had brought something unwelcome into his home. The man feared that he was unacceptable in the eyes of Tim’s God. The man suspected that he was feared by Tim and his family. 

Tim now knew about the man’s association with the medicine. The man wondered if Tim considered him somehow disqualified. These are some of his own fears that the middle-aged man was aware of. These are the fears that the man acknowledged as he sat in the presence of his daughter and mother who were just finishing breakfast. The man sat in communion with the clicking of his keyboard, the sound that once belonged to his wife.

“Signifier” and “Signified,” two words that the man had heard his wife use in her study of literary theory. What does a man do when his very name is the signifier of the crossroads? “Is it correct, this signified that I witness in my own being? Is it true that I am one who stands at the crossroads? Is this position at the crossroads somehow deeply connected with my very being? If so, how do I live with myself? How does one stand at the crossroads for a lifetime? Should one stand at the crossroads for a lifetime? Maybe it’s time to move on past the crossroads?”

Many years ago when the young man was away for military duties, he met a man at a mall who was selling bookmarks. The bookmarks were printed with names and their meanings. He found his name among the rows of hanging bookmarks. “At the Crossroads,” was the meaning that he read on the bookmark. The man bought the bookmark. He eventually lost the bookmark, but he still remembered the message.

The writer found himself at a crossroads in his thoughts about Tim. “Will he accept me or reject me?” thought the man. 

What is the function of the man who stands at the crossroads? “What have I learned about this recently?” wondered the writer, “Wasn’t this a thread throughout my recent recorded experiences? Experiencing the BOTH /AND. This is what the Spirit had been showing him to experience when he found himself standing at the fork in the road, presented with the binary. Maybe this wasn’t about acceptance or rejection from Tim. Maybe it was about something different. Maybe it was BOTH/AND. 

What had Christ done when faced with the ultimate rejection that lead to his death? When the Christ was nailed to the crossroads, what had happened? He took it all in. All the pain and suffering, he took it all in. 

“Am I ready to accept rejection from this man who was once a father to me. Am I ready to be corrected by this man? Am I ready to take that in? What about acceptance from Tim? Are you ready for that? The man looked back at his work. His through-line was stretching thin. Would it snap? That’s always a possibility. Some of these deaths that we die go so deep that they blind us. 

Editor’s Note: It became apparent to the editor that a “crossroads” and a “fork in the road” were not the same thing. A crossroads was the meeting of two roads which presented two new directions while still offering the road on which the traveller from which the traveller had ariived. A fork was a bifurcation of the path, only one new possibility.

The writer’s phone rang. He could feel it buzzing in his pants. He stood up from his sitting position on the couch in his mother’s living room and reached in his left pocket to retrieve his phone. It was a California number. It was Dave Workman, of muse harbor publishing. The writer answered his cell phone:

“Hey Dave! Glad you called!

“Hey, how are you? 

“I’m doing very well thanks. I’m just very grateful. I’m here at my mom’s house with my kids. We are having a lovely time together. The writing is coming along, I’ve been discovering what it’s like to be a writer, you know, the mechanics of it along with the rest. How are you, Dave?”

“We are doing pretty good. My son is feeding us all the time. I’m getting ready to go to a princess birthday party today for my granddaughter’s birthday, so who knows what to expect with that.”

“Well, I would love to meet with you tomorrow if you guys are available.”

“Sure,” said Dave, “let’s do it…”

The writer agreed to meet Dave and Eileen on the town square in Bentonville, Arkansas.

As he sat back down on the couch with his laptop, his phone announced a text message with its familiar chime. “I wonder if its Tim,” said the disciple. “How long will I wait to see who that message is from?” he wondered inwardly this time. 

The writer continued his inward interrogation,“Was it Tim? Did it matter? What is hanging in the balance of that question?” He was not sure. The man reassured himself that he was simply making himself available as he allowed this resurrection to continue taking place in his life. “I’m out here in the world,” he said, “I’m learning how to move at the speed of life.”
He was also learning how to say “yes” to what was available. He was learning how to accept. He was learning how to risk, in just the way that he had risked when he saved his life by leaving home twenty months ago. In the same way that he risked when he took the sacred medicine.

The man avoided his phone, not out of dread, but because he was actually enjoying this suspense. He was immersed in this story. He was enjoying this story. And for that, he was truly grateful. 

He was happy to be at his mother’s house with his children. His relationship with Tim was important to him, and he was willing to risk his emotional well being to tend to it. His writing felt exciting to him, and he wanted to see where it would take him. He was willing to give his relationship with his father another chance. He was curious about where his rediscovered faith would take him. He was enjoying his role as the writer, as the middle-aged-man, while not taking himself too seriously. He was holding form, but as loosely as he was able. He had given himself permission to live again. 

Life was out to help him, but that did not mean that he would not suffer. He was prepared for the inevitability that doors would close in his face, and hurt feelings, he knew, may come with that. He was aware that everything would not always go his way. Making peace with a Universe that was out to help him simply meant that Life was there, ready to guide him through the ups and downs. Life was there, ready to help him accept himself through whatever came. He was discovering for himself that Life was creative, loving, kind, and incredibly intelligent, and he was saying “yes” to Life living through him. And yes, that meant that he was curious about the text that had arrived minutes ago. And he was also curious about his thoughts and emotions surrounding the relationship with his old mentor.

He felt into his body. He made peace with the What-Is. He imagined that Schroedinger’s cat was over there in his phone. Schroedinger’s cat in the form of a text message. “Hey, what do you know about Schroedinger’s cat?” he asked his brainy son, certain that he would get a five minute presentation. “Uh, dunno ‘bout Schroedinger’s cat,” said the red headed teenager. 

Strangely enough his son did not know about Schroedinger’s cat. The man thought that strange. His son seemed to know something about most things. “I guess I’m on my own,” thouht the man. The man recalled that there was a cat in a box. And whether that cat was dead or alive depended on something. What was that thing that the cat’s life depended on? “The cat in Schroedingers’ box was somehow both dead and alive until the box was opened. Now how could that be?” he thought. That was the extent of the knowledge the man had about Schroedinger’s cat. He hoped it was enough. Of course, he could have googled, but he felt it unnecessary.

Right now, the message that the man assumed was from Tim was stored in the hard drive on the man’s phone. That message contained some kind of information. The message was a response to a request that the man made. The response was either in the negative or in the positive. “The cat is either dead or alive,” he thought, “Dead or alive a perfect representation of the binary,” he was pleased with himself now. “Maybe it’s not Tim’s response that determines my future. Of course it’s not,” the man laughed at himself, “That seems to be obvious. But how obvious is it, really?” wrote the writer. “Yes, it is obvious to my intellect, but how obvious is it to my heart? How obvious is it to those parts of my being that are scared of rejection? How obvious is it to those wounded children of the psyche, those subpersonalities that Bill Plotkin writes about?”

The time for discussing this was coming to a close. The man knew how to live life, or rather, he was committed to having Life lived through him. There was no amount of preparing for the worst that he could do which could stop him from hurting if is friend rejected him. And there was no certainty that the man would not experience rejection in one form or another even if his friend’s response was in the positive. There were so many opportunities for the man to experience rejection and suffering along the path that he had chosen. He would be knocking on doors and fishing for men the rest of his life. He would have to trust that life was taking care of him. He could sense an uneasiness in his stomach. “Is that just what it feels like to be alive?” he questioned.

The man’s oldest daughter sat down on the leather chair across the room. She looked lovely. “Are we ready?” she said. “I need just another couple of minutes said the man.” He was going out shopping with his family. The man closed his lap top, acknowledged the One-ness by bowing his head toward his heart, and he walked across the room to retrieve his phone.
 11:20 AM


Day 10
5:41PM

“And so it came to pass that in and through all things the middle aged man truly came to be born again.”

Day 10
9:38PM

The dying author sat in a reclining chair in one corner of the living room. He was giving room for the miracle to happen again. His fingers were curled over his laptop. His fingers were not moving. 

The dying author fell asleep. Can you see him sleeping there, dear reader? He is asleep there with his laptop in his lap.

The dying author woke up in the chair in the living room of his mother’s home

As he woke, groggy in the chair, the dying author had a vision of the shower shoes that had kept him from coming in contact with the wet floor that day when Drill Sgt Hilliard yelled at him in the shower in Fort Sill, Oklahoma. He was naked. His head was shaved. He could not see well without his glasses on. Those black and white shower shoes were the only thing between the young man and the wet tiles. Drill Sergeant Hilliard screamed at the young man in the shower. It was May of 1996, that thin layer of spongy rubber, the only thing between him and the floor. The young man’s father had also screamed at him naked in the shower.

The weighted blanket comforted the dying author as he sat in the chair. Two large windows would have shown him the backyard had the sun been out, but now there was nothing but blackness. A deep exhaustion had come over the dying author. 

The writer struggled for strength and inspiration. He tried to recount the events of the day.

Tim had finally texted him, the text he’d thought was him earlier had been someone else.

The dying author was unable to form complete thoughts as he lay reclined in that chair in the corner of his mother’s living room by the two windows with the view of darkness. He fell asleep again. He woke from his second nap, still exhaustion was all that he felt. 

The author bought two bibles earlier in the day. He had them engraved with names, one for his mother, and one for his Self. It was a miracle of spiral dynamics that he had bought a bible for himself as he could never have imagined that he would ever buy another bible again in his life. He wondered if he should have had another name beside the one that he went by inscribed in the bible. “Maybe a new name for myself is in order,” he thought, “Perhaps the name, ‘Flow’ instead of the name his parents had given him,” he thought. “Flo, a female name, short for Florence.”


A college football game played in the next room where his bed was. Marl was watching the game. “If you need to go to bed I can watch this in another room,” hollered his stepfather.

There was a beautiful young man with long flowing hair playing quarter back for one of the teams. They kept showing studio pictures of him holding a football. He had long hair and cute smile. He was a gorgeous young man. As she passed through the living room the writer’s youngest daughter stopped for a moment and looked at the television screen as the quarterbacks image appeared, “He looks like a lion, Dad. That man looks like a lion.” The writer agreed. He did look like a Lion, like a gorgeous lion. The middle-aged-man wondered how a young man could look so much like a football player, and so much like a beautiful woman, and so much like a Lion at the same time.

The text that the writer eventually received from Tim was not a rejection. Tim was sick, but he said, “I look forward to seeing you later in the week…” The middle-aged-man again felt into his body as became curious about the nature of those insecurities surrounding his friendship with Tim.

Jason, an old friend from highschool called the writer in response to a text he’d sent earlier that day. The middle-aged man was taking this opportunity to connect with some old friends. Jason was the leader of the young man’s band from highschool. Most of Jason’s other friends in highschool had called him Breed, on account of his last name. But the writer still intentionally called him Jason. They made tentative plans to get together to talk and play music. 

In his first semester at University, the writer’s brainy son had just completed a course entitled the Legacy of Darwin’s Great Idea. As a result, Darwin and Richard Dawkins were very present in much of the conversation that evening. The writer’s mother got out her copy of The Selfish Gene. She had written a paper over the book in her studies for her master’s degree. The writer’s son and his mother talked intensely of evolution. Intensely was just about the only way that his son ever talked, which reminded the writer a lot of himself when he was truly engaged in life.

As a result of this conversation, the writer saw his mother in a different light that evening. He saw a facet of his mother that he’d never been aware of. She was educated in a way that he’d not understood. She held the interaction with her grandson so thoughtfully and gracefully. She was the Universal Glow. They had once called her G-Lo, short for grandma Lorri, and a parody of J-Lo (Jennifer Lopez). But today, the writer had seen her as the “Glow,” (G-Lo). And now the “Universal Glow.”

The writer felt no through-line tonight. But he’d read enough novels to know that sometimes the narrator just kind of hung out in the space that his characters occupied. And that’s how he felt about life right now, like nothing in particular needed to be happening. “This is just life going on, and it’s just real fine. There’s the through-line, right there,” he thought, “Life is happening and if that’s not doing it for you then I guess you can skip ahead to the next chapter, but this is how the writer’s life was just then.”

He longed for the football game in the next room to end and for silence to fall upon the house. He longed for the silence and the focus that he found at the adobe house.

The writer continued his recounting of the days events:

The middle-aged-man called his friend Dan. That night, on the phone, he found himself held in their friendship. They had a common language that was being born in the restoration that had been occurring in each of their lives. The two friends encouraged one another. They gave thanks for the miracles that they were each witnessing in and around their own lives. They gave thanks for the miracles that they were seeing because of one another’s presence each other’s lives. They acknowledged the presence of God in their midst. They acknowledged the weave, the fabric of the cosmos that held them. The middle-aged-man was truly grateful for his friend. 

The man shared with Dan how he had bought a bible for himself and for his mother that day, a miracle of the great snake which spirals upward, the spiral dynamics, the DNA of human consciousness which moves ever outward into the great multiverse. Today the man was able to say, “Thank you, Jesus,” a truly strange miracle in the life of a man who had forsaken that name years and years ago (just as Petra had) as he understood that the man from Nazareth was never called Jesus (It was something more like Yeshua). But, that morning, as the man spoke those words, “thank you, Jesus,” there was a simple acknowledgement of his own roots, a nod toward his place of material origin, a nod toward the form which had first held his conscious recognition of the Christ. The young man had walked away from religious fundamentalism before he even knew what fundamentalism was. He was moving toward an all inclusive Cosmic Christ before he even knew that Christ could be that open. This is how all almost every conversation went with Dan. Full of joy. Full of life. Full of inspiration.

The man ended his phone call with Dan. He sat in prayer and meditation. His mind was taken back to the months after he and the mother-of-his-children sold all their posessions: 
The writer gave thanks for the Universal Mother, Maryanne Fite, who had said yes to him and his family all those years and years ago as they were buying that field, the field which the pilot would one day set that plane down in—the plane with the failing engines. The field was the one that he and his wife had bought all those years ago. 

He and his young family poured those Sonic drinks out onto the winter wheat which had been planted by the young man and his father-in-law. The family of 3 stood in the field of winter wheat. The young family who loved one another so much. The young family who would soon be 5. 5 would be their count. The husband and wife would hold that form long enough for the children to grow up. And then the husband and wife would let go of that form in order that new form could be born. They would experience a death and a resurrection. 

Thanks be to the God of our youth. Praise be to the Snake, the one who deceives us all that we may experience life. Praise be to the one who deceives, our enemy, whom we love. Dare I say, Praise be to Satan? Praise be to God. Praise be to the Source. Praise be to the Christ who is the ALL and every Thing. In Christ there is no Holy or Profane, all is the Sacred. All is the miracle. There is no matter or non-matter that is held together without the All. Praise the all inclusive. Give thanks for the theosis, the realization of the One-ness in ourselves. Praise be to the Poet who speaks forth that which is not as though it was. Praise be to the Wios, the One who walks the earth.

The middle-aged-man had a sense that he needed to ask Tim about the Wios when he met him next. The writer googled the word but found nothing. The man remembered Tim, years ago, talking about the Wios (the mature son who walks the earth).

As the writer wrote, the domestic activity slowed. The house was quieted. It was 11:46PM on Saturday night. He breathed in relief at having finally made it to Oklahoma City. He remembered his poorly planned hitchhike. He felt that his pilgrimage had come to a conclusion. The pilgrimage that had started weeks ago when he put on his backpack, made a cardboard sign, strapped a mandolin to his pack, put on his yellow elk skin glove, and walked out of the college-cow-town by the strength of his own two legs and back.

He sat in the stillness, breathing it in. He made his way to the bathroom, where he arranged the blue mat and assumed his North facing position. He kneeled into the water droplet pose. “What time is it, father?” he asked. He remained there in that position until he found Life moving him forward to where he was not sure. He would try to get some more sleep. He had a long car ride to Bentonville tomorrow to meet with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) face to face. “It would be nice to get some good sleep,” he thought to himself.

Praise be to the One who gives sleep. Praise be to the One-Salvation. Amen.

Day 11
3:04AM

Just minutes ago, the writer awoke with a start. He had a dream that he could not remember, but the powerful energy of the dream lingered. The writer paused now, closing his eyes, allowing the energy of the dream, which still lingered in his body, to aprehend him. “The writer paused now,” The writer repeated to himself, for it was in this sentence, “The writer paused now,” that he detected the Great-Turning, or the Great Folding-Over which he had first experienced in his mother’s blueberry batter, and which he had more recently become familiar with after he’d consumed the large dosage of mushrooms on Christmas day. And now he knew what it was that he had dreamed of. It was the dream of this Great Turning to which he awoke with a start when he heard his daughter open and close the bathroom door close just a few minutes ago. “There it was again,” thought the author, “The place where the past meets the present—that place where we perceive the past to be the present through the use of symbolic language?” 

“The writer paused now.”

A statement in the past tense which contained the present.

This reminded him of the Course In Miracles lesson that he’d read and practiced last night just before he went to sleep. “Let’s see, what was the lesson?” wrote the writer. He bent over. He reached down into the space between the couch and the coffee table to retrieve the thick blue book. He retraced the last three days:

Lesson 9: “I see nothing as it is now.”
Lesson 8: “My mind is preoccupied with past thoughts.”
Lesson 7: “I see only the past.”

The writer was reminded that by the time the light from the lamp reflected off the objects around him, travelled to his eyes, and was then processed and interpreted by his nervous system, there was a certain fraction of a second that had passed. What it was that he thought he was seeing now, was actually the past. Yes, it was this lesson that was taught to him once in a physics class. That lesson was taught in the past, that place that we have such a difficult time  escaping. That place where we just cannot help but go.

“The writer wrote now,” wrote the writer.

The writer, by his very nature, is the observer who comments on the past, no matter how infinitely close he may perceive himself to be located in the present moment. “Infinitely close,” repeated the writer to himself. This reminded him of a few lines of a  Rumi poem he’d read last night. 

He remembered that the poem was on page seventy-two and seventy-three of the book that he’d purchased yesterday while shopping with his children. He now felt around for the book between the couch and the coffee table. Was he feeling for Rumi, or was he feeling for the book? Rumi was the author who died so that his reader could live. In his poems his reader found his own life-- Rumi and Hafiz, those Sufi poets who recorded their love affair with the Eternal Now.

The spirit of Rumi Spoke in tongues:

“The moon has opened its face
And its wings made of light.

Borrow eyes to see this,
If yours cannot.

Night and day an arrow comes toward you
From a hidden bow.”
		Rumi (translation Barks)

The writer reached now for the thick blue ACIM book. He practiced his lesson of the day:

“I do not see this book as it is now,” he said.
“I do not see these hands as they are now.”
“I do not observe these thoughts as they are now.”

This writer—the dying author-- commented on the present which he wondered if he could ever truly be a part of. “Even when I am not writing, how close can I really come to the present? Infinitely close? like the arrow? Is this the purpose of the teachings of the Buddha? Isn’t this the purpose of the Vipassana practice?” The writer then paused and practiced ushering himself along in this present moment. His fingers instinctively paused, hovering over home row, allowing his documentation to be as closely in touch with the present moment as possible. 

The writer paused again, his hand was on the Rumi book. He grasped the book. The book: sacred written form which the Christ did not feel necessary to participate. He wrote no words. He was making contact with the people. Christ become a parable himself, his life recorded by others long after he was gone. Legend. 

Christ became the One around whom the myths were told. His life was a hero’s journey, the one-story with which Joseph Campbell and Carl Jung found themselves dancing around. This was the hero’s journey that was now being revived in the writer’s own heart. “Can the parable write of itself?” The writer wondered. 

The writers’s eyes finally came back to Rumi’s living words. He reached across the coffee table to retrieve the Christmas gift he’d received from his only son, the uniquely crafted piece of stained wood with which he could hold a book open with one hand. He read the line about the arrow:

“Night and day an arrow comes toward you
From a hidden bow.”

The writer is transported back to a Spring morning in 1990. He sits in Algebra class. The classroom windows are cracked open. The infectious Spring leaks into the classroom. Birds build nests in the trees on the other side of the high school football field. Mr. Watters stands behind athe overhead projector factoring a binomial. Mr Watters is a fluid father of symbols. 

Two students walk across the parking lot. They each hold a cigarette in their hand. They will not go to any more classes today. Once clear of the parking lot, they stop and light their cigarettes. For a brief moment, they know true freedom.


The overhead projector fan drones on, a tanpura inviting improvisation. His students shift in their seats., sensing the truants freedom as they light their cigarettes. Mr. Watters attunes the break in his student’s attention. He moves his dry erase marker to the top-left quadrant of the overhead projector screen. Without a word, he draws the infinity symbol. Now, he traces the infinity symbol, over and over again as the infinity symbol so naturally invites. 

Obed Watters, projects the infinity symbol in real time on the screen. His job is to teach Algebra, but right now he pauses from the binomial to trace the symbol. The symbol is right there for all of his students to witness. The symbol has no apparent connection to the day’s lesson, but here it is. It is the only thing now in the students minds. The dry erase marker dances with the infinite. 


In another version of our universe which the writer imagined to be only slightly more dystopian than the one in which he now lived, Orwell’s thought-police enter Mr. Watter’s classroom door. They do not knock. Yes, it is the thought police. They come in and sweep up ol’ man Watters. 

Now they are taking pictures of the evidence. “This was an obvious attempt to infect the minds of the children under his charge,” said the lead inspector. 

“Was this an act of subversion?” the writer now questioned, “He seemed such a straight laced man! This man-of-Watters who traced the infinity symbol. Did he open up a hidden and dangerous universe for those boys and girls in the public schools?”

The overhead projector is still wet with the infinity symbol. “This dry-erase marker was purchased with state funding! This marker was purchased exclusively for the purpose of teaching Algebra II!” shouted the man taking pictures disgustedly. 

Old Obed Watters was mopped up. The students are pretending that they are not affected by this sudden intrusion. A gloved hand picked up the marker and placed it in a plastic bag. The high school Juniors sat nervously, waiting for a replacement teacher. They remained very still in their seats. The temportary teacher arrived just minutes after the removal of the excessively fluid Watters. 

The high school students did not mourn the loss of their teacher. They could not mourn as they did not yet know how much they loved him. The infinity symbol was erased forever from the overhead projector, Mr. Watters never seen again. The image however, was forever etched in the student’s collective Soul. That which points to the moon, will have its effect. And at least one of these students will love him one day.

That signifier was having its effect now in the life of the middle-aged-man. Yes, the symbol was having its effect as it pointed to uncountable possibilities in an infinite multiverse. The memory of the symbol penetrated the fabric of those young malleable souls who had witnessed the tracing of the side-lying figure-eight. 

The infinity symbol was not the only introduction made by Watters. It was the same fellow, the middle-aged-man’s Algebra II teacher, who had also introduced him to Zeno’s arrow. The arrow which, by approaching half the distance to its target with every movement, could never actually reach its mark.  The arrow may come infinitely close but never hit its mark. 

This was the same arrow, the writer now believed, that Rumi referred to—this arrow that “night and day comes toward you from a hidden bow.” Rumi asks his reader to surrender to the arrow of which we have no shield to protect ourselves. 

The writer now understood this impartation of Mr. Watters to be of the same variety as his vision of the blueberries—the blueberries that his mother (that Universal Glow) had taught him to fold (not stir!) into the batter. These are the modes by which the writer now understood Life to be communicating with him. This was The Great Learning, The Great Turning, the Great Folding Over, the way by which we evolve. This is how we move forward as a species.

We are not really a static species, you see. Things are not nearly as solid as we think they are. Thank you, Mr Darwin, for showing us this! There’s a way of looking at all life as a transmuting expression of consciousness, the same way that Special Ed, the Marxist, had taught the middle-aged man to see the thunderhead. Any one species, like the clouds or the dewdrop, is in constant flux, although we still feel compelled to reify that which is constantly changing. It’s how we desparately want our world to be. Unchanging. Change can be scary, and evolution presents to us a dynamic world.  

Do you, dear reader, recall those reified beans? Do you remember the Marxist—whatever that means—and the reified beans that he so slyly called the middle-aged-man’s attention to? Those reified beans, our neighbors just South of the U.S. border. Those ones which were alienated from their own labor. Do you remember the beans, dear reader?

It was the train tracks that did it, or so the Marxist said, and it was quite a convincing argument. Yes, the middle-aged-man had come to believe that it was the train tracks that did it—those train tracks that arrived from the North just before the turn of the twentieth century. 

You see, dear reader, the trains brought a great alienation to the land. Alienation, the most dreadful of all diseases. The reified beans were alienated from their own labor. Alienation, that disease of separation. That ailment which is the inability to see the All in one and the one in All. That disease which separates us from our own evolving consciousness. 

Praise be to Mr. Marx! Praise be to Mr. Ed, that sly Californian who brought his subversive impartation to the Eastern High Plains so that the middle-aged-man could add it to his collection—the infinity sign, Zeno’s arrow, the great thunderhead, the reified beans, the train tracks South, and his dear mother’s blueberry batter.

It was the blueberries of which he dreamed at 3AM on his mother’s couch when the sound of his daughter opening the bathroom door woke him. He dreamed of the Great Folding, the same Great Folding which the man feared his consciousness might never return from on that Christmas morning, the same morning that he’d become an infant and longed for nourishment from a Universal Areola. 

It was then that he understood his deep desire to be held. He understood that he was never held as much as he needed. It was in his longing for the Universal Breast in which he understood more clearly his need to be held. And he found the nourishment in his own thumb that morning just a short while before he purged in the bathtub. 

This same man acknowledged his own need to evolve into the Universal Man. The writer is writing. Can you see him, dear reader? There he is. He sits cross-legged on his mother’s couch engaged in an attempt to write the Universal story. There he is. Can you see him as he does his part to invite the Cosmic Christ to arise from within his being?  

This writer now nobly engages himself in this process of death and resurrection. This writer now answers the Universal-Calling of His-Life. He speaks of the One who spoke in Parables. He allows himself to become the Parable. Is it ridiculous? 

Is it foolish that the man bought that proverbial field so many years ago? Was it foolish that the man crash-landed his plane in that field? To the middle-aged-man these actions seemed the most appropriate expression of his own being. These ridiculous actions have become the most meaningful stories in his life.

Who is this writer who says yes to his own death for the sake of his reader’s awakening? How does It happen that we come to see the Parable in the stories of our past? Can we see the Parable in the life of Watters and the life of the Mother, dear reader? Can we see the Parable in the folding of the blueberries? Can we see all those little berries providing sustenance to the evolving consciousness? Can we see our dynamic human nature? 

Can we see that our nature is not static? Is it true that our gender is not as solid as we were told it had to be? Are we making peace with a feminine spirit which arises in a male body, i.e. the Christ. Can we do that, boys? Oh, my! 

Praise be to the One Watters! Praise be to the one who stood in front of us all, tracing the infinity symbol with the dry-erase marker! Praise be to the Universal Fan of the overhead which drones, an invitation to create novel improvisations. Praise be to the Universal Author, fingers curled over home row. He breathes in, an effort to bring the present moment as close to these words as possible. He breathes out now with the same intent. Can you hear him breathing, dear reader.

Praise be to the invisible One-Source from which we all flow. Praise be to the God who is available for the making of Love. Praise be to the hands that crafted the Great Mandolin and the Ude and all the stringed instruments from which our hearts are awakened to the Great Potential of Life. Praise be to the ears that hear the Great Sound. Praise be to the birds, and to the sun, and to the blue sky in which they find their dynamic expression. Praise be to Isaac Newton, the man who described and predicted the movement of the planets while searching for hidden messages in sacred scripture. Praise be to the Breath which is breathed by the ever expanding and contracting Universe. World without end, Amen. Amen.

Selah

The writer writhed slightly in his seat, allowing the Great Sister Serpent, the Kundalini rising to make her way up through his spine. He said “yes” to the the Great Turning as his chakra wheels went round and round within his being. He said “yes” to the beauty of the rainbowed female snake who had made an invitation to him on that Christmas morning. 

His vision of the Snake became meaningless as he tried to save his life from a psychotic death which he was convinced was eminent. On Christmas morning, the man back-pedaled away from this death. Then he engaged himself fully in the saving of his own life by grabbing the guitar which served as his life preserver. He came as close to drowning that day as he ever wanted. He clung to the guitar desperately. He waited for the storm to pass.

The writer paused in his efforts. He had no way of knowing if his task was legitimate (meaning publishable). He could only know the legitimacy in his own being. He longed to be a real boy, to be transformed from a wooden impersonation of a human being into a clearer representation of Essence. It had become apparent to him that there was a falseness in his being that could not move forward with him. There was a suffering within that needed to be relieved. There was something in him that needed help, and these words now seemed to be the most honest expression of that cry for help.

He sensed a greatness in his own being in the writing of these words. He realized, however, after years of sensing that same greatness in the music that flowed from him, that there was no guarantee of notoriety or financial success. The work that he did now was to show him his own greatness. He sensed that. It was possible that it was great for him only. Or maybe it would be a great unknown prayer for those of us who are just out of reach, for those of us who are imprisoned and unable to commune with the soil.

The writer thought of his son in law with whom he had recently connected with. He was sleeping now in the same home in which he now channeled his own healing through this personal message of hope to himself. 

The Son-in-Law, this beautiful being who had said “yes” to the leaving-of-form. The one who had left the God of his youth. The Son-In-Law whom the father-in-law had blessed yesterday with that irrevocable blessing, the blessing which gives its approval in the simple acknowledgment of the Life that is witnessed within. 

The father-in-law spoke the father’s blessing which cannot be taken away. The father’s blessing, the blessing that simply awakens the younger man to his being-ness. The blessing that is the acknowledgment of the I AM, that which already exists in the one who receives the blessing. The blessing that merely points the young man to to THE ONE. The beautiful son-in-law who was inheriting the rising spirit of the times within himself, the convergent evolution of Being arising from within.

The middle-aged-man was grateful to have received the gift of Presence from his children this weekend. He  had spoken with each of his children this weekend. The father sat on his Mother’s couch, fingers curled over home row, once again a with-ness to this miracle of creation. The man said “yes” to the Universal. The man said “yes” to that Which-Is, that which flowed through him. Praise Be to the Great I AM. Praise be to What-Is.

Day 11
6:04AM

Having once again been ravaged by the love of his Lord (Hey! Give me a break, a man has certain needs you know!), the middle-aged-man sat naked on the blue bathroom mat, his back against the West wall. The man wondered if his sense of direction in this neighborhood was true. There was much winding of the neighborhood streets to finally find his mother’s home on Two Bridge Drive.

As he sat in silence, communing with the What-Is, he recalled an email exchange with Harbor Dave the morning after his trip with the medicine in the mountains where he’d witnessed the Christ in the dust of the Universal Moth. Praise the One who is drawn toward the Light! Praise the One Light which draw all Moths. He retrieved the email exchange. He copied and pasted the exchange into the Universal Manuscript, the one being written by the dying author. 

And so it came to pass that the man with the yellow, elk skin gloves (Praise be to the mother Elk!) sat at the table in the Universal Kitchen of the One Cabin in the Universal Woods from which he would emerge a more whole being. Praise be to the Universal Father who makes peace with his Universal Child!

Responses below in blue!
On 2019-12-15 13:30, middle-aged-man wrote:
I seem to be more capable of putting my thoughts down when I have an audience in mind. I think that's normal, yes? "Consider your audience," they say. Well, Dave, today you are my audience. My audience is a guy named Dave that I met once at the Hummingbird work weekend. I can take the pressure!
 
What happens when I address the audience directly? What happens when I acknowledge my audience? What happens when I acknowledge the humanity of my audience? What happens when I communicate with my audience, understanding that there is a common thread? What is the common thread, Dave? Short answer: The humanity of the author. They do say that the link between writer and reader is a two-way street, and I suppose it is. But the writer's in the driver's seat. The reader's just a passenger. Doesn't mean the reader doesn't have power. The reader can always get off at the next exit if the road's too bumpy. So, in a sense, not only does the writer have all the power, but the lion's share of obligation to keep the relationship thriving. To keep the reader comfortable in his/her seat. (In a fully formed book, that is.)
 
I'm writing to you now as I sit in a cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. There is no cell service here. There is no wifi. I am writing offline. 
 
Last night I had an encounter with the wisdom of a fungus. What is the wisdom of a fungus? From what I understand, they were the ones who turned the rock into soil. There is a lot of wisdom in that, no? How does one take that kind of wisdom in? Or rather, How does one agree to that kind of exchange? Yes. That's what it was, I suppose. An exchange. Wise, wise creatures, that fungi. And (apropos of nothing) I just read the other day where a certain species of 'shroom in Chernobyl was breaking down specific chemicals and feeding off radiation. They'll still be here, long after we are gone, I suspect. (And I do love communicating with fungus. Some people call it a life-form. I think it's a doorway.
 
Obviously there are a lot of details in an experience like that. Jimi Hendrix would have said, "Are you experienced?" When I was fourteen I said yes to some kind of exchange when I heard that Album. Purple Haze. Hey Joe. Manic Depression. Those songs really spoke to me. But, I'm not going to talk about that now, because I'm going to send you the current draft of my autobiography. 
 
In the autobiography....What can I say about the Autobiography? I think I can just let the draft speak for itself. I am sure that you will find it very drafty. But, I have been told that that is how a draft should be...yes? Drafty? Yes. First drafts should be ugly. A quick sketch in what might eventually become an intricate oil painting.
 
I have shared this writing with a select few people. I even sent it off to a writer/philosopher/meditation-guru named Stephen Schettini (The Naked Monk). He told me that it reminded him of the first draft of his autobiography, which I had just read before sending him my drafty draft. He also said that there were a lot of details that might not be pertinent to the common thread that we are all looking for. He said that when he reads he is looking for his own healing. And that's what he wanted more of in the book. He said that he knew he was asking me to do the impossible in re-approaching this work. 
 
So, I pass this draft along to you today (well, not today, but as soon as I have wifi again) with all of this in mind. I'm passing this on to you today...why am I passing this on to you? What can I say that will be honest? I'm passing this on to you because I am trying to do the impossible; not just in the rewriting of this draft, but in my life. Ahhhh, so there may be a bit more coming out of this than I expected!! :)
 
I am attempting to hold the un-holdable. I am attempting to speak the unspeakable. I am attempting to let go of what is impossible to grasp. 
 
I broke all the promises I ever made, Dave. I just quit my job, simply because....too many details, Dave. I'm going to let you fill in the blanks there. You understand the anguish. 
 
My father always made sure that I had vehicles. Even after I was married with kids. He kept giving me cars, Dave. As I let go here, I am faced with the possibility of my children's cars being re-possessed. Too many details? 
 
I wept last night in anguish as I witnessed myself trying to accept the un-acceptable. 
 
The point, Dave, is that I am a strong bear. I know...I have not provided you with any context for that statement. (None needed! I think I get it.) But, you know what it's like the day after a trip like this, right? right. I know just enough about you to know that you know. Know your audience. How well does Travis know Dave? Just enough to open this door a crack?
 
I watched a moth last night, Dave. It's wing dust was smeared all over my blanket. I'm sure that I must have crushed him. I watched this moth in his dying moments. I witnessed his death. 
 
I wanted to touch him, but I knew that my fingers were too big. There was no possible physical interaction that I could possibly have with this moth. He reached out with a quivering antenna. then he began moving, very slowly, up the canyon of this soft red blanket. He moved almost imperceptibly slow. I knew that I could not leave him. I wondered how long this might take. How much could I take? He was like the Christ carrying the cross up the hill. I think he WAS the Christ. He eventually stopped his forward movement. He became very still. And as I examined him as closely as possible, as I did some kind of close-reading of this beautiful, dying creature, I saw the face of a cat. It reminded me of my cat, Eli, at home. There was some kind of glowing, like spider eyes in the forest when you shine your flashlight on the ground, a sparkling. And then he was gone. The life passed from him, and the cat's face was no longer there. 
 
Moments after, I finally turned out the light to try and go to sleep. I heard a fluttering. A moth came and buzzed my ear, and he grazed my arm, and then I could hear him fluttering against the window shade. Then his sound would disappear, and I could hardly live with not knowing when this moth might return and scare me. But, I did live with it. Somehow I lived with it. 
 
I was so deep in the soil last night that I wondered if I would ever return, the soil that the fungus made by pushing in its tendrils and busting up the rock. In what you've just told me—which is both lovely and wonderful—you've added another layer to your journey, to your writing. These last paragraphs fit like puzzle-pieces with your autobiographical writings. Because these last paragraphs tell a unique story about you. Perhaps you've just dipped your toe in a mountain lake? How's the water? Whether you're reading or willing to jump in....? Ah, that's your call.
 
Good morning, Dave
Today, you are my audience.
 
I send all of this to you with trust in my heart, reporting only what I saw and felt. Something is waking up inside me. Something is rising from within. This deeper power. The un-objectifiable. the un-name-able. The Mystery. The One. The Source. The Christ. The I AM. Great Spirit.
 
I cannot hold this by myself, Dave. I need your help. Not just your help, but the help of you and many others like you. I'm here! So is Eileen. Between us, we make a good backboard for ideas to land where they're perhaps best needed.
 
Yours in draftiness!
Dave
 
in draftiness
Travis
 
P.S. I decided not to send the draft because I see now that I have logged on that you are asking questions about the last writing I sent you. 

Hi Dave

I am very grateful for your investment in this happening in my life. We all have forms that we gather around, fires around which we dance. And I am understanding the writing to be the fire around which you and I are gathering. 

I understand your perspective as a writer and publisher. When I first began teaching music, I was always trying to teach people to take music just as seriously as I did. It was the only way I knew how to teach. After years of pushing people too hard, I realized that if I could just help people to enjoy their instrument, then I was doing them a great service. Not everyone, I finally realized, was going to take this as seriously as I do. What I hear you saying is that you see potential in my voice, but you are also giving me the liberty to maintain this form as something more personal. 

I journaled consistently for about 10 months this last year. At some point I realized that my best "journaling" was being done in the form of these long text messages that I was writing to people, so, I just started copying them into my journal. Through that, along with my mushroom email, I am seeing an important discovery. It is time for me to write with an audience in mind. I will try to not make any assumptions about what that means. However, I find the response I got from the "audience of Dave" to be very encouraging.

I was especially moved by your last comment about things fitting together like puzzle pieces. I felt that.

I was reading an excerpt from Eileen's Raindrops of Love yesterday. I cannot find it right now, but there is someplace where Life is saying something to the effect of "you have been asking this question: Who Am I?....etc...but the real question you need to be asking yourself is 'what can I bring forth into this world which will serve best for the continued arising of consciousness?'" Basically, "how am I best equipped to serve?"

There are so many writers. So many books. So many musicians. So many albums. So many songs, Dave.

As I sit here on the top of this metaphorical mountain, cradled in the branches of this tree, listening to the wind and trying not to put any words in its mouth, I can't help but wonder. I have put my life on a little pause. I am asking Life to create a life for me that is better than I have been able to create. All my creation has dissolved before my eyes, and now I am unafraid. I have been granted the courage to walk into some great unknown. I have heard hero's stories like this.

Back to the fire and the dancing...or the practice of this form. I realized from your response that I have no desire to re-write my autobiography. If something else is to come, it must be something new, a re-approaching of what could be called "my life". I think Stephen Schettini told me everything I needed to hear about the draft of my first autobiography. I think that the "miracle that he asked for must be done through me, not by me.

For years I have toyed with fiction. I wrote the backstory for a Dungeons and Dragons character once (A young marshal artist monk named Jet-Ki..haha). I really enjoyed that. Also, I have brought mythical creatures into parts of my autobiography as a way of dealing with hurt that was unbearable. I also understand that any attempt to write non-fiction is bound by my inability to really tell the truth. In that sense, fiction seems like a much more suitable format for approaching truth. 

I heard you say that there is a mountain story here. That makes sense to me. I understand taking a pack up a mountain. I understand what it is to feel like prey, to wonder if I am being stalked. I hitchhiked to Amarillo last week. I climbed a small mountain on Sunday. I baptized myself (again) in a cold mountain stream as a prayer to become a disciple of the universal Christ. These are the honest ways that I am interacting with the earth recently.

I always struggle for authenticity when I am addressing an audience. I've been performing musically for most of my life. My favorite performers are the ones who seem to be lacking the flavor of performance. It has been my desire to simply allow myself to be an authentic human being who just happens to be holding a guitar and singing on stage. I'd like my writing to be this way. In the past I have experimented with posting my writings on facebook, using the writing to make connections. 

The last word of the previous pararaph: "connections"....That is the purpose of the writing to me. I have seen that I must realize my space in the fabric of community. The manifest connections at this point are the essential part of this journey for me, the system of support. This is an authentic path, to write with the intent of connecting with my fellow human beings. I am sending out little radio signals, little radar pings, bat or dolphin echolations, searching the skies and the seas for other beings. 

Today, as I write you I feel alive. I feel engaged. I feel heard, even before you have read this. Does that mean that I am being heard by a listener that is even greater than "Dave"? I think it does, and that feels authentic to me. I am being heard by my deeper Self. I am engaged from within and without.

I heard you say that each paragraph in "exquisite Stillness" seems like an introduction to a bigger idea. I am going to take another look at the piece that way, see what I see.

Sincerely Drafty

And it was in this way that the writer acknowledged the encouragement that he’d received from Harbor Dave of Muse Harbor Publishing. It was in this way that the writer felt himself being held in the arms of some Universal Big Brother (No. Not the kind from Orwell’s 1984!). The writer felt himself being held in the arms of his brother, Dave.

Dave had encouraged the budding writer to expand on the Exquisite stillness that he had found in the mountains. The Exquisite stillness was the man’s first documented mountain-top experience, a mountain story in which there were no mushrooms involved. There was only an uphill path, and a pack, and a fire, and a Forest…and fear…There was fear. And then there was the making of peace with that fear. And, oh yes, there was a cougar. The man believed her to be a mother cougar, which may or may not be expounded on later.

And so it came to pass that the writer cut and paste this first mountain story into this Universal telling of his own story, because (there is that “because” again) the Exquisite stillness and the telling of old stories seemed quite pertinent in this moment. “Because” he was trusting this process. He was trusting Dave and Eileen in the editing process that was on the far horizon. He cut and paste this little mountain story, holding on loosely to the outcome, wondering if it had a place. It did have a place. It had its place in this draft, in all its draftiness.

Exquisite Stillness

exquisite—extremely beautiful and delicate. highly sensitive and discriminating.

	My father is a very fearful man. Of course, he would never admit it. But his fear has eroded a deeply grooved path in his being. Like water which runs through a canyon, my father has no choice but to follow the course that fear has carved through the terrain of his inner person.
	My father has never learned that he is not exactly like his thoughts. He is completely identified with every thought and emotion that he experiences. That’s why he is so easily offended. If his thoughts or emotions are challenged he has no choice but to become defensive and angry.
	My father suffers deeply. But he has hidden his suffering so well from himself that he cannot understand why he feels the way he does. Because he cannot ease his own suffering he must blame people and circumstances for the way he feels. 
	Just last year I asked my father to come and help me. I was going through a difficult time with a recent divorce. My kids weren’t speaking to me. I was plagued by suicidal thoughts. My father was very helpful.  He helped me to make the home where I was staying livable. When I asked him for money that he didn’t have, he became very angry, telling me, “You are the reason that I am a bitter old man. I have dreamed of putting a bullet in your head. And I have dreamed of putting a bullet also in the head of your mother.” His eyes were red and tearful and full of rage as he pointed his finger at me from across the table. Although I was also suffering, I was able to ask him to forgive me for the pain that I had caused him.
	My father does not have friends. He told me that he has intentionally pushed people out of his life and that he experiences satisfaction when his birthday passes and no one acknowledges him. He has also told me that he is hurt when no one acknowledges his birthday. He has said both things to me. I think I understand how both can exist in separate moments.
	It is difficult for me to relate to my father. I know that if I challenge his thoughts and emotions there will be conflict. It seems that merely presenting my own experience challenges him, so I often just let him talk and talk about the way he sees the world, knowing that it will be easier if I just stay quiet.
	
	I am beginning to see how I too, have lived in fear. I am beginning to see how my suffering has injured others. I am beginning to learn how to give myself the compassion needed to allow my fearful thoughts and emotions to dissolve. I am no longer blaming people and circumstances for my own suffering. Now I hope to stop blaming myself and find an entirely new option.
	
When I was four years old I watched the movie Jaws. The ocean, I understood, is where fear resides. But that’s not really how it is. Fear resides in my own mind. The ocean is just the ocean and sharks are just sharks. I understand now that there is some remote possibility that if I go into the ocean that a shark might eat me. But if I allow my fear to dictate where I go and what I do, then I may never go into the ocean and play in the waves.
	When my children were young, we took them to the ocean for kayaking. I and my oldest daughter, Anna, became seasick. Our guide, Max, suggested that we jump in the cool water to relieve our nausea. I felt sure that as soon as I jumped in the ocean that I would be eaten by a shark, but I jumped in anyway, and so did my daughter. I did not want to pass on my fear to her.
	
	This weekend I went on a solo backpacking adventure in the Pecos Wilderness of New Mexico. As I was signing the trail register, I noticed someone had written a warning about cougars. “Stay together!” they wrote. I was by myself. There was no one to stay together with. As I set out on the trail I felt like prey, scanning the mountain above and below for movements of large cats.
	After seven exhausting hours on the trail, I pitched my tent, made myself dinner, and built a large fire. The crackling warmth of the flames made me feel safe and secure. It was the first time I had ever been in the wilderness all by myself. I went to sleep watching the campfire from the tent. Two hours later I awoke suddenly. The fire was out. It was dark. There was a mysterious clicking sound close to my camp. I was terrified.
	I lay there for some time, hoping that I could fall back to sleep, but I could not. I finally sat up in the tent as straight as I could. I listened to the strange clicking sound. A light rain began to fall on my small tent. The sound of the raindrops hitting the tent just inches from my head was unpleasant. I startled with fear when the logs in the fire shifted suddenly. My brain started inventing other reasons to be fearful, but panic was not an option. I was miles from anyone or anywhere. No cell reception. No help. no comfort.
	I recalled my meditative practice and then I calmly prayed. I focused my attention on my breath. I realized that no matter how unpleasant the sound of the rain was, I could not change that. I accepted that I was vulnerable and alone in a dark forest with only a thin layer of fabric between me and the wild. I had no control over any of this. The only thing I had any chance to control was my response to fear.
	Eventually the rain stopped. I recalled something I had read earlier that day from Pema Chodron. She had encouraged me to move toward my difficulties instead of trying to push them away. I wondered, “What if I get out of this tent and just sit outside in the dark?” I allowed myself some room to make friends with this idea. Part of me was resistant, but another part of me thought that that might be okay. Minutes passed. As I opened the tent, the sound of the zipper seemed to echo throughout the canyon. I found my sandals and then I sat again, waiting for the courage to go out into the dark, closer to whatever threats, real or imagined, might await me. As I finally emerged I could see the outlines of large rocks and trees. I sat on a large stone by the extinguished campfire. I could still feel some warmth emanating from the darkened coals.
	As I stared into the dark forest, I allowed myself to become aware of my breathing. Thoughts came and went. I imagined a sudden piercing howl. I imagined that Golem was creeping around on the rocks just outside my camp. I imagined that a large cougar was stalking me, skulking down the mountain in preparation to attack. But, every time a thought came I allowed myself to return to the stillness that was all around me. I told myself, “none of these imaginations are actually happening.” What was happening in my surroundings? Stillness. The mysterious clicking had stopped. The rain had ceased. There was absolutely no wind. I was in the middle of a profoundly still forest. Exquisite stillness.
	When I allowed the stillness between my thoughts to align with the stillness of the Pecos Wilderness there was harmony. Stillness within. Stillness without. As the fears came I understood that I had a choice. I could allow my mind to entertain fear, but then I would be missing what was really going on. So I just kept coming back to the stillness, and when I did that, there was no fear. I had no control over what might happen in the next moment. But that was really none of my business. I was much more concerned with what was actually happening, this Exquisite Stillness. I was eventually able to return to my sleeping bag.  I slept until the sun rose.

	Hiking down the mountain is often much easier than hiking up. Me and my son Joseph have hiked together a number of times. He likes to consider all that potential energy that we store up in our bodies as we are hiking up the mountain which is now being converted into kinetic energy as we make our way down. 
	I made my way down the mountain to my little blue Toyota with a cracked windshield. Still sensing the release of this kinetic energy as I drove home from my solo backpack adventure, I called my father. I wanted to talk to him about how I had felt in my role as potential cougar food, because I knew he would understand. He loves to think about the terrors of being eaten alive. Our conversation was the impetus for the words you are now reading.
	I have lived for most of my adult life powerless to control how I respond to fear. My fears were so deeply imbedded that I didn’t even understand that they were fears. I participated in psychotherapy; I joined churches; I prayed; I had demons cast out of me; I went to AA meetings; I exercised; I studied; I tried to be a loving person; I became an atheist; I meditated; I became a feminist; I had intelligent and caring friends; I listened to my wife; I went back to school and got a better job; I wrote songs; I performed music; I got standing ovations; I did many things to try to fix myself, but fear continued to dictate how I perceived the world. Even when the forest was still, my brain was inventing fears.
	I want to be careful here that I don’t sound like I have the answer, but if I am truthful, I feel like I do. I will try to explain. Today the answer for me is acceptance of what-is, and confidence that a power greater than myself is able and willing to restore me to sanity. When I am in the dark forest all by myself and my brain is inventing a half dozen reasons that I should be scared, I now know that I am not obligated to follow these story lines. If I am willing to look inward toward this Exquisite Stillness, I can experience a profound shift in my perception, a miracle of perception change. Today I am willing to experience a deeper Reality than I was able to conjure for myself. If I allow it, this deeper Reality will flow from within me. A well has been unstopped that I had allowed to be clogged by all of my fearful suffering.
	All of those things I said about my father, those things are true about me too. And if that is the reality that I choose, I render myself powerless, bound to my fearful story lines. 
No matter how hard I tried, I could not think myself out of my inherited mental illness. But today something has changed. Today I have a reprieve from my insanity. Today I am focused on this Exquisite Stillness.

…And so the first story of the mountain was told by the middle-aged-man, the story of the Exquisite stillness. This was the story of a man who had been trying to make peace with his father for a lifetime, and the story of a father who had also been trying to make peace with his son.

And this is how the writer, the one who was sitting at his mother’s home in Oklahoma City, came to witness again the long journey up the mountain that he had been making over the previous year. For it had been three-hundred-and-sixty-seven days since he had driven his little blue toyota, the one with the severely cracked windshield, to the Emergency room instead of going to work on that December day. It was just over a year since the middle-aged-man found himself walking the circular hallway of the psychiatric unit in Roswell where he had received the prayer of restoration from the One called Clinton (that Universal Crossroads), the gay black man who had interceded on behalf of the man, the man who had just had another cavity search, the one who had just prayed, “God, please help me.”

But there is still another mountain story to be told, dear reader. And the dying author is very much looking forward to the possibility of sharing that story with you. The story of how a man flew up a mountain with a feather and was rocked in the arms of a an evergreen.

Day 11
8:03 AM

And so it came to pass that the writer prepared for his journey to Bentonville, where he was to meet with his two new publisher friends. He sat in the red and white checkered chair by the large windows in his mother’s living area adjacent to her kitchen. His mother emptied the dishwasher. His eldest studied her part for her lead role in a French comedic opera. His youngest was mischievously interacting with the world as usual. His son slept. The man put his arm around his son-in-law.
 
Leaving early would give him a chance to visit the art museum that his mother had been recommending to him for years, his mother, the Universal Glow. “Am I idealizing my mother? Maybe, thought the wildly talented writer. And also, maybe I can meet with my old friend Van Gogh today, that one who struggled in this world, that one who tried so desperately in his relationship with light to make peace with this swirling cosmos, that one who painted the starry starry night. Our Dear Vincent who truly did paint the divinity that he witnessed. The one who passed down to his brothers and sister the vision of seeing life that way.

It was with deep trust and affection for all that-is that the writer, somewhat hesitantly left his joyful family that morning. He left them in Love. He left them with thanksgiving in his heart.

Amen and Selah.

The windshield of the man’s little blue Toyota was iced over. He needed a tool. He started the engine, turned the heat on high defrost, and picked up Dickey Lee Erwin’s CD case from the middle console. CD cases can make good ice scrapers when its not too cold and the ice is not too thick. The process did not take all that long. Soon he was back in the driver’s seat.

He put the car in drive. He used the neighbors driveway for a turn-around. As he passed house after house in his mother’s comfortable neighborhood, he was reminded of the mandolin that he’d left behind. His guitar was with him, but his mandolin was not. As a prayer of willingness to listen, he turned the car around. He parked the blue Toyota in his mother’s driveway, went inside, grabbed the mandolin, said another short goodbye to his family, then passed over the threshold of his mother’s home again. 

He found the Rucker Brother’s CD, the album that he had written and produced with his old friend from music school. The album spoke to him of hope, his friends last name, Matthew Hope. He praised the Spirit of Music which chose to flow so freely through his friends hands in the album they had created together. His friend was truly a conduit, some might say a genius. 

The album played out. The middle-aged-man called his friend Matt. No answer. Voicemail not setup. The man texted his friend Chris with an invitation to call him. No response. The man continued the journey on his own, giving praise for the sense of purpose that he felt in his being, giving thanks for the clarity in his mind and soul, giving thanks for death and the resurrection that he witnessed in his own being,  He picked up his phone and accessed its audio-recording app. He raised the phone to his lips.

The traveller spoke the following words that day as he scooted down the Oklahoma turnpikes in his little blue toyota, stopping to pay the tolls along the way.
 
The man dictated his words into his telephone in order to be with you like this now, dear reader. Look, dear reader, do you see him there now? What is it that he is holding? I believe he is praying for us…“I pray that God would keep us rooted, right here in this moment, the eternal now, moving at the speed of life. Gratefulness in these hearts. Thanksgiving on these lips. Peace. Peace. Peace to you, my dear reader.”


Maybe following Life is like foraging as a hunter gatherer—seeing the nuts and the berries, following the herd of animals as they migrate. Maybe it’s more like that than obedience to military General. 

The writer, the middle aged man, the dying author, this traveller, held his phone close to his face and spoke into the audio recording app. He reveled in the idea of his words being captured in real time as he drove down the road. He passed a sign for Braums, a fast food restaurant. He had worked there as a soda jerk in his twenties. It was his first job after he and his wife had sold all their possessions and poured those drinks out in the winter wheat field. 

The traveller tapped his brakes, dropping the little blue toyota out of cruise control in order to stay with the flow of traffic. “I’m just moving at the speed of Life,” he happily reminded himself out loud. He was on interstate 244 East heading toward downtown Tulsa.  

Tulsa OK, the city in which a young man and his wife spent their first married evening. The traveler took the Joplin exit where the road forked. He laughed in recognition of the binary. Yet, in that moment his forward motion did not cease, for he did not wish to cause a traffic accident. His GPS told him that he had sixty five more miles to go until the next fork in the road.

He passed the Bartlesville exit. Bartlesville, that town where one of his old friends was from. Kevin, the gifted guitar player. Years ago, a young man and his friend Kevin were musical partners. Kevin was the one who had a heavy correction for the hitchhiker sitting there at Denny’s waiting for a ride. 

Kevin, the man who had spent six years in prison--six soul crushing years in a federal prison. How does a man process that kind of suffering? How does one learn to survive in places like that? Where one can hardly ever feel safe? Where one cannot masturbate in private? 

“What the fuck are you doing?! You’re not some kind of fucking hobo. I mean, what the fuck are you doing out there on the goddamn highway? You’ve got responsibilities! You need to take care of your business.” 

This was how Kevin’s voice arrived in the middle-aged-man’s ears as he sat at Denny’s, his hitchhike coming to a conclusion. With as calm a voice as he could maintain, the middle-aged-man finally said, “with love and respect, Kevin, I’m going to hang up the phone now.” He had not heard from Kevin since.

The traveller took a moment to make his heart right toward his old friend. He took a moment to allow this miracle to happen in his own heart as he drove through downtown Tulsa, the place where he and his wife had spent their first married night. 

Today, the man felt his own company, and it was good company. And the man felt the company of you, dear reader, as he drove on those elevated interstates. “fifty eight miles to the next fork in the road,” a large green sign informed the traveller. 

He marvelled at the joy that was in his heart—this pure, simple, clean, light-hearted experience. He knew that if a word search was done on this manuscript, that the word “experience” would certainly be the most used. “That’s appropriate,” thought the writer, “considering where I came from. Considering that album made by the twenty-something year old Jimi Hendrix, who’d asked a fourteen year old boy that question, ‘Are You Experienced.’” At eighty miles per hour, the traveller laughed out loud. That fourteen year old boy took that question into his heart. “Are you Experienced?” That fourteen year old boy took that album into his heart. He took that creation into his heart. Noel Redding on Bass. Mitch Mitchell on Drums. Yes, that music captured that fourteen year old boys heart. It was the boys father who had made that introduction.

With fifty-four miles before the next fork, he breathed in the joy of life. He breathed in all of the connection that he was sensing. He rested in the weave of life. The first time he took the medicine, that’s what he had seen. He saw the fabric of being. He saw the fabric of community. And he saw himself supported in that fabric. Yes! It was more than sight, more than seeing. With the help of the medicine, the middle-aged-man was able to experience a felt sense of being supported.

It was then that the traveller was able to acknowledge fear in his own heart. “There it is. Right there,” he said. “Fear, I acknowledge you.” He felt the fear in his chest. “Fifty one miles to the next fork,” he announced. 


Yes. He felt the fear in his heart—a fear that maybe he’d missed it. Fear that maybe he hadn’t worked hard enough. Fear that he should be at work right now in the physical therapy clinic. He braked abruptly, almost passing a state trooper doing sixty-five in a fifty-five.

The traveller remembered that a feeling-of-fear is not the same as a story-inspired-by fear.

He passed a billboard for a gentleman’s club called “Sensations.”

Bright orange pylons and arrows pointed in many directions. His travel slowed to 55.

“Hey, lookie there!” he laughed out loud, “Rick Springfield is scheduled to play at the Hard Rock Café, casino, and Resort”

He looked down at his gas gauge--less than a quarter of a tank. He opened his heart to his environment. A red GMC pickup truck passed on the left. The writer thought of those trackers who see the world through the animals’ eyes. He checked his GPS--sixteen miles to the Stone Creek gas station in Inola, Oklahoma. His GPS indicated his arrival time in Bentonville to be around noon, which would give him an hour to see if he could find Mr. Van Gogh at the art museum.

Editor’s note:
Is it critical of me to ask these questions: “What is the point of all this? Am I getting to know a character? Am I endeared to this character? Do I have compassion for this character? Does this character deserve compassion? Is he likable? Do you like this person that you see? Is his voice friendly? Whose voice? Critical voice? 

And so the road seemed to open up wide in front of him as he approached the horizon over a hill. Tulsa disappeared in his rearview mirror—forty two miles to the next fork in the road.

As the left lane closed down for construction up ahead, the traffic lined up in single file. The man came to a fork in the road of his own—that place all writers encounter when they must choose between one story or the other. 

Left Fork: The writer had a vision of a chimpanzee walking on two legs. In his arms and hands, the chimp holds as many oranges as he can carry. Can you see the chimp, dear reader? Can you see him grasping on to all the food he can possibly carry with his hands-- and even with his feet? His ancestors came down from the trees so that we could carry all these oranges today! This is one of the benefits that comes with bipedal motion. “Yay! Now we can carry food, and babies, and tools! This is gonna be awesome!”

Right Fork: The writers second choice in the binary involved a recount of the only honeymoon that he’d ever been on. Ahhh….path of the broken promises. 

The writer was pleased as he waited at the fork in the road. He paused at the binary. He chose neither. He waited in the rise and fall of his own chest.

Both lanes opened up again. Then the orange signs reappeared and the road narrowed to a single lane. The gas station approached, less than a mile ahead. Massive power lines overhead. He merged into the right turning lane. He pulled into the Sinclair station. There was the green dinosaur. His father let him ride the green Sinclair dinosaur when he was very little.

“How closely is this narrator related to the observer?” the writer wondered. He pumped his gas and he went inside. “The I AM simply observes. The narrator is the one who tells story with language,” he finally answered himself. He stood at the urinal, speaking into his telephone, wondering if someone would walk in on him mid-sentence.

As he made his way through the gas station and out the door, he realized his hunger. He had not eaten that morning except for a few candied pecans from his mother’s kitchen island--those lovely pecans, so attractively offering themselves. 

He unlocked the car remotely. His car beeped. He pulled on the silver handle. He sat, opening the tupperware he’d packed. His mother’s fridge and pantry had much to offer him that morning. He munched on some of his aunt Lindi’s famous cheese log. He savored a couple of pieces of chicken that his mother prepared the night before. He didn’t want to be too full. He was scheduled to have a meal with Dave and Eileen. He dipped a frito in a soft avocado. He tasted a peanut butter cookie. One final bite of chicken. Then he started his car and navigated out of the parking lot. He turned right twice, and merged onto the Interstate.

“You’re packing too much food,” his youngest daughter’s voice rang in his ears. 

“I believe you are correct,” he said out-loud as he completed his merge into the right lane. 

The writer was looking for dialogue opportunities. “What else is it that I’m trying to develop in my writing?” he asked himself. “Oh yes, I want to allow the reader to experience the story with their senses. Also, with descriptive details, I’m creating environment in which dialogue can occur. I’m choosing the Universal message as I allow the dialogue to form. It’s not at all important that I remember exactly what was said. It’s mostly important that I allow Life to show me the Universal Message in the conversation.” 

“Remember, we are writing a novel here, a work of fiction, a novel very loosely based on the life of one  middle-aged-man,” a writing coach had suddenly shown to offer a little help in the creative process.

“Oh, Universe!” proclaimed the man, “You really are out to help me?” the writer proclaimed joyfully.

The middle-aged-man often found himself wondering what other people remembered about certain conversations they’d had. He’d discovered that, often times, the conversations that turned out to be so important to him, his loved ones could not remember. Dialogue, the reconstructed memory of a conversation. 

He was curious about first memories too. As a father raising his children, he wondered which moments in the lives of his children would be formative, so he questioned them as they were growing up. He questioned his children about their memories. He was curious about how they remembered life. Just that morning, in fact, one of his children asked the man about a memory. 

“Do you remember when your brother was born, Dad?” asked his son. 
“Yes, I do,” he said. “Let me show you how I remember it.”
The father lowered himself to his knees in front of the fireplace, next to the snake-skin-pattern chair--the floor-rug textured with yellows and greys. 

“This is how I remember my brother being born,” he said.

The man held an imaginary car in his right hand. It was an orange volkswagen Beetle that zoomed forward when you pulled it back. He pulled the car back on the thick carpet and then he watched as it rolled forward on the hospital lobby floor. When the car came to a stop, the little boy retrieved it joyfully and repeated the process.

The middle-aged-man’s three children watched intently as the little boy played with his new toy that his parents bought to keep him occupied as he waited for his little brother to be born.

As the little boy stood up he was once again a man, the father of the children who were, for that brief moment, witness to a memory. 

“And that’s what I remember about my brother being born,” he said to them. “I don’t have a memory of a baby boy for some reason, but I do remember waiting in the hospital lobby, playing intently with that little car,” he said. “But, you know what?” he questioned rhetorically. “I am not for sure that the car was self-powered like I said it was. I feel pretty certain that it was an orange car, but I’m not exactly sure that it was a volkswagen Beetle. That event happened over forty one years ago. I was four years old. I have played and replayed that memory for myself many times throughout my life. I can’t really be certain of much surrounding that memory, but that’s the story I just told surrounding the birth of my brother. That is the evolving memory that came to signify his birth in my mind.”

Thirty four miles to the next fork in the road…





Editor’s Note: This feels sad to me in this moment, that the middle-aged-man has no memory of his brother being born. The editor searched his own heart for his brother’s memory. “How much of my memory was formed by pictures? What was it like to remember before their were pictures? Our pictures form so much of what we remember. Was there a picture of me playing on the floor with the orange car? Is that why I had a memory?” the editor questioned himself.



The narrator. The observer. .
The one who tells the stories. The one who simply is

This is right where his practice started with Penny. Penny, the one who’d asked the man this question: “What percentage of the voices in your head are your father’s?” Although it had been many years since she’d asked him that question, he still remembered his answer and how quickly it had come to him. 

“Eighty five percent,” said the man in Penny’s office. He sat on the couch, hugging a large throw-pillow.

He immediately reflected on his answer, suspicious of the speed with which he’d answered. It did seem like a reasonable number. So he said it once again, “eighty-five percent.”

The man who sat in Penny’s office was one of the top-five-self-bludgeoners-that-she’d-ever met. This is the man who estimated that eighty-five-percent of the voices that spoke to him were the critical voice of his father. Before meeting Penny, the man was unaware of the damage that he’d been heaping upon himself.

“Andy Dufresne,” said Penny, “Do you know Andy Dufresnes?”

“Yes,” said the man, “He’s the guy in Shawshank Redemption.”

“Andy Dufresne,” Penny repeated the name. “The man who crawled through a river of shit and came out clean on the other side. This isn’t gonna be easy,” she said, “and it’s not gonna happen fast, but you’re going to come out clean on the other side.”

“How many times,” wondered the traveller, “how many times since then have I thought that I have completed my crawl through that shit-tube? How many times?” 

He knew the answer did not matter. He knew that there was no use worrying about it. The number of times was literally uncountable. It would be impossible for the man to remember every recovery of his life. He knew that all he had was this moment. All he had was today. 

He felt sure that the best thing he could do for himself now was to keep making friends—always making friends with himself first and then allowing that friendship to spread out and touch others. 

He would receive the friendship that was being offered to him today. No expectations. No demands on life. The AA literature had suggested to him the possibility of, “Living life on life’s terms.” Or, as the middle-aged-man had been saying to himself recently, “I let go, let life do the living.”

The traveller encountered a fork in the road that he’d not expected. He went left and it was the wrong choice. Tara, his GPS was speaking up now, in her greatest effort to correct his error. The traveller now found himself on unexpected detour on a two-lane highway.

 After he allowed his initial sense of, “Oh shit! I took a wrong turn,” to pass, the traveller settled in to the great What-Is. The detour curved through a blackjack oak forest. The turns were tight and the line was doubled in the middle of the road. Yellow caution signs indicated S-turns ahead. Rural homes dotted the sides of the highway. The hills and curves and double- lines persisted. 

Horses were out to winter pasture. The oaks stood tall and proud now by a billboard for a community bible church. Black angus cattle munched on golden grasses. A tin barn rusted to death where it stood. An american flag waved gently in the breeze. And another flag. And another still. 

He was informed by a passing sign that he was on scenic-route 412. He passed a church parking lot full of cars. He carefully observed a two-way stop as his GPS faithfully was faithfully recalculating his way back to the main higway. Nw in a neighborhood, he topped a steep hill. There was a writer in him now, a hunter gatherer, looking for tasty morsels of americana.

“How will this read?” he wondered.

As the on-ramp found him there were thirteen miles to the next predicted fork in the road. The writer felt quite certain that if he had not been narrating so vigorously that he would have chosen the correct fork earlier and could have avoided that detour. 

“That’s the nature of the narrator.” The writer instructed himself, “The narrator is chronically in the past, and when the vehicle is moving at seventy-five miles an hour, and the narrator is at the forefront of the consciousness you’re probably gonna miss your turn. “So be it,” he thought, “at least there’s a point to all this chatter. At least there’s some kind of lesson.” He felt satisfied with that.

But that younger version of himself, the one who sat on Penny’s couch, had never ever heard of the Observer or the Narrator. Do you recall, dear reader, the one whom I am speaking of? There he sits, on Penny’s couch. Do you see him? Yes, dear reader, he is hugging a pillow and coming to terms with himself. The one who we were with before we took that wrong turn back there, dear reader. 

He had surely met the observer many times--many times had he rested in those arms of the the great I Am. He had known that sincerity. He had lived in that authenticity. He had tasted this reality many times in his life, just as we all have, dear reader. 

It was just that he was not aware of that critical voice. It was not until that day—the day that he sat on Penny’s couch, that he became aware of a critical voice in his own head. Before that, the critical eighty-five percent was invisible. Or rather, it hid in plain sight. 

Eighty five percent of his self-talk was the echoing voice of a critical father. And he had been unaware. He was not obligated to listen to the critical voice. But he did. And this is how he’d earned the title of one-of-the-to-five-self-bludgeoners-that-Penny-Sanders-had-ever-met.

Hazards blinking, An SUV merged from the shoulder into the right lane, hazards. The traveler signalled and gave way to the one who was merging.

As he passed the merging SUV the writer recalled a book that he’d read about the Anneagram. He had taken a personality test that helped him to identify his own clinging ego. The book suggested that he write an autobiography in third person, but he’d ignored that advice and he pushed on in the first-person instead. He spent many hours in the reconstruction and the owning of a story that he had already told himself a hundred-thousand times—a story of pain and suffering told in the first person which reclaimed over and over again all of the trauma that he’d experienced.

Only three miles now to the predicted fork in the road. The GPS was saying “yes, take a left this time, my friend.” A toll plaza approached.

So Penny gave the man a great gift. He came back time and time again to sit and face that unconquerable wall of despair, facing the trauma that had been locked in his body for years, as Penny offered him her “unconditional positive regard.” Praise be to Penny. Praise be to Carl Rogers.

“This is not going to be easy,” Penny said, “And it’s not going to happen fast. But you will come out clean on the other side.” 

Today, this traveler believed Penny. Once again, he believed her. For he had today: this hope, this reflection, this presence. Yes, dear reader, today he celebrated his story of recovery as he felt himself on a pilgrimage to visit his old friend Vincent Van Gogh, and his newer friends, Dave and Eileen.

He was just an hour from Bentonville now, and he thought that he might give the Observer some time to navigate. For some time he breathed in. He breathed out. He oriented himself to his passing surroundings.

The middle aged man wondered about the adobe house and the college-cow-town. He wondered about Eli, and how he was. It seemed like ages ago that he’d stood facing North into the great mirror of the kitchen. He crossed the border. Arkansas had found him!

The traveller sang gently, “Moving at the speed of life. .Moving at the speed of life. Moving at the speed…moving at the speed…Moving at the speed of life.” 

The traveler, who was moving now at precisely the speed of life, arrived at the Art Museum. It was an American art museum, so, no Van Gogh. But, he did meet Sapphos of Lesbos. He left the museum. He navigated to the Bentonville square. He had lunch with Dave and Eileen. They walked the wooded gravel paths and briefly explored the museum together. The writer brought his hands together. They said their goodbyes. The man got back in his little blue Toyota with the cracked windshiled. Then, he reprogrammed Tara, the GPS, to guide him back his mother’s home in Oklahoma City.

As he drove away from the Bentonville square he pulled into an angled parking space. He quieted the engine. He closed his eyes. He brought his hands together. He asked for direction. He placed his thumbs on his forehead and bowed to his own heart. He asked that he be able to let go of his own schedule, that he would be empowered to follow the signs of life like a hunter-gatherer, that he could see through the eyes of the animal that he followed. 

As he began his drive home, he waited on a traffic light at Gene George and Sunset. He turned West on Sunset Avenue. He waited for the miracle, that which he could not do for himself.

He left Bentonville on I-49. Life presented to him two small flocks of geese and one large circling of vultures. He recalled his lesson in ACIM from the night before. It had something to do with knowing that what we see is not…real? “Is that what Helen was saying?” wondered the traveler. “Or perhaps she was saying that so much of what we think we see is really our past informing our present.What might happen if I truly became aware when the past is dictating to me my interpretation of the present moment? What would it be like to live in a reality in which I am truly aware of the present?” The traveller acknowledged that he had felt a dark meaning in the flock of vultures.  “Maybe I do not know the meaning of those birds,” he said.

As he was leaving Bentonville, he saw a sign in the yard of a home. “Psychic Readings,” said the sign. The traveler stopped. He rang the doorbell. No one answered. He prayed that his willingness to stop would be received as a prayer. 

It would take a miracle to get him home tonight without consuming caffeine. It would take a miracle to keep him alert and awake. He was not a good night-time driver. And with his sleep being erratic recently, he was concerned that he might have some kind of physiological crash on his way home. He was fearful of that undeniable force that so often pushed his eyelids down as he drove at night.

The billboard at Freedom Fellowship read “Peace, be still. Jesus.”

He had been less than still in his interaction with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave). He had allowed himself to become what he called, “playful.” He allowed himself to say and do things that he would not have said or done around normal people. The writer questioned himself about what he meant when he said “normal people.”

“What was that that? Who was that playful person that I just allowed myself to be with Dave and Eileen? Was that the manic person that scares people away? The manic person that the mother of my children does not want to be friends with? And what was it about Dave and Eileen that made me feel free to be that?” the writer asked himself. “And was it appropriate that I allowed myself to be that?” he wondered still.

ACIM was directing him to let go of the meaning that he assigned to things. This aligned with his teachings from Pema, just allowing things to be. It seemed the wisest course to allow the time that he’d just spent with Eileen and Dave to just be. He was not obligated to derive any meaning or significance from the time that they’d spent together. He was not obligated to force any meaning on the circling vulures. “I remained grateful and buoyant during my meeting with them,” the traveler encouraged himself. “I remained open and playful. I listened. I shared. I enjoyed myself in their company.” As the sun began to set, the traveler did his best to make peace with himsef and with his memory Bentnville, and of Dave and Eileen.

It was five in the afternoon. All the cars headlights were shining. He drovepast a rock face that highway workers had once carved. He passed a log cabin on stilts. The sun would be down in a few minutes—the landmarks greyed in his sight.

Round green haybales dotted a small circular field. A bridge carried the traveller over the Illinois River. He passed a barn that had been constructed to look like a ship. 

He felt the beginnings of sleepiness in his eyes. “Do I hold too much hope in this writing project?” he asked himself. “Why do I feel so insecure righ now?” His two and a half hour meeting with the publishers had depleted him emotionally. There was no way around the hope that he felt in his desire to become a writer. 

A great exhaustion came over the traveller. He struggled to stay awake.

“Enter the gates with thanksgiving. Ener the courts with praise. I give you thanks, Oh God for the gasoline that is in my tank. I give you thanks that this vehicle has made it this far, to this spot in the road.” The traveller frantically munched on snacks. Can you see hime there, dear reader? Do you see this exhausted man trying to get home. His eyelids want to close right now. “I give thanks for the pink hue of the clouds against a blue but greying sky. I give thanks for the food that’s going into my body right now.” He filled his body with sugars hoping to get a little lift. “I give thanks that I have options today. I can get a caffeine drink if it’s an emergency. I can also beseech God for a miracle.” He felt desperate. That’s honest. He felt desperate. “This is why the mother of my children doesn’t like my manics,” he told himself, “There’s always the crash that comes afterward. And here it comes.”

 I give thanks for the deepening contrast of the pinks and blues in the sky. I give thanks for the depth that I can see as I look at that pink sky. I am process. I give thanks for the process which works through me.”

The traveller sang, “Moving at the speed of life.”

He was pretty sure that he stole that melody from The Prince of Egypt soundtrack.


Day 12
5:32 AM

The next morning, having successfully stayed awake on his trip back from Bentonville, the middle-aged-man sat in the living room with his mother. His mother, the Universal Glow, who sat next to the gas burning fireplace in a snake-skin patterned chair. The middle-aged-man was seated comfortably on the couch—the couch which had served as the man’s bed for the previous three nights. 

The man’s children, his mother’s grandchildren, still slept in the guest rooms just on the other side of the hallway—the hallway which was lined with many pictures of all the family that flowed in and out of the home in which they now sat.

The man loved his mother. He was deeply grateful for her presence in his life. His mother still held him. Over the last year, his mother had done much to help him hold his own form. The mother had done all that she could do to bring her son into the world, and also, to see him be born again. She had not only witnessed his rebirth once, but many times. There were also births that she had not witnessed, those births in which the mother had not been directly involved. 

But, as she sat there in the snake-skin chair, the mother was an audience to her son’s current rebirth. She was close. She also knew that she was only a witness. She watched as her son allowed himself this process. She watched as the son was letting go. She watched, and yes, she was worried, but she knew how to give her son the room he needed to do what he was doing. And the son knew how to allow his mother to be a mother. He knew that she would worry, and he was somehow able to allow her to be just who she was in this process. He was able to feel her worrying for him without allowing himself to be overwhelmed by her worry. And these were the nuances of the push-and-pull in the relationship between the man and his mother—the mother who now sat in the snake-patterned chair in front of the softly hissing gas fireplace.

The son and the mother spoke of the day’s plans. He and his children were scheduled to have lunch with his father at Louie’s on lake Hefner. 

Son-in-law asks to trim the father’s beard?

As the mother and son spoke, the youngest daughter seated herself next to the middle-aged-man on the couch. “Do you remember last night?” she said “I got up to get a drink of water and you were standing over there crying, Dad. I gave you a hug and asked you if you were okay, and you said, ‘somethings happening.’” She continued. “I’m nervous about meeting with Papa,” she said.

She wanted to talk about her grandfather and how she felt about the upcoming meetin. She spoke of her apprehension toward her grandfather. She spoke of a fear that she had in relating to him. 

“Your grandfather suffers deeply,” He said. The middle-aged-man spoke with compassion in his heart. “He was never held in the way that he needed. He was never seen or known. He was physically, emotionally, and verbally abused by a father who had likely had the same done to him.” 

Next, his oldest daughter approached him. They had a similar conversation. The father spoke of generational suffering. He spoke of the healing process. He spoke of needing to be held. He spoke of Andy Dufresne, the man who crawled through a mile of shit and came out clean on the other side. He gave his daughter thanks for the gift of her being. He thanked his daughter for seeing him. He thanked his daughter for listening. He thanked her for her smiles and her hugs. He thanked her from the bottom of his heart and he was glad.

He prayed for the father who they were scheduled to meet. He prayed that the father would have his own awakening experience, and he prayed that their meeting today would play its part in the great awakening of the Father.

9:10am

Text to father:

Son: Is there any room at the inn for me tonight? I’m trying to birth this Christ Child

Father: First…yes…second what does that mean?

Son: It just means I’m alive. I’m writing a story. I’m witnessing the birth of life in my being every moment. And so, everywhere I go I’m seeing this Universal awareness being born and I am acknowledging that same birth in others

Dad: sounds like the makings for a great new year!! See you soon.. much love your way!

There was a game that the middle-aged-man used to play with his kids. The family affectionately called it the “stay-game.” The game involved the man hugging his children and not allowing them to leave. The hold on the child was released. The child would attempt to get away. As the child attempted to move away, the hug was then reestablished by the father with the words, “Stay. Stay. Don’t go. Stay.” It was a big joke. At least the man hoped that’s what it was. “A joke, right?” the man thought to himself. 

The man hoped that he understood the parody that he was showing to his children. “Guilt is a joke,” was the lesson that the middle-aged-man had tried to convey to his children. The man wondered if he’d taught his children well enough. The man wondered if he had yet to fully take this lesson into his own hear--this lesson that he had attempted to teach to his children.

“Guilt is not a joke,” he said to himself. He wondered why he taught his children that. He hoped it was enough to get some kind of point across to them, the point of a lesson that he may or may not have yet to learn.

And it was in this way that the middle-aged-man and his children left the grandmothers home that day. After lunch the children would head South to visit other grandparents. The man was scheduled to spend the night with his father.




1:31
Day 12

After the meal at Louie’s, the travelling son followed his father home from Lake Hefner. He fell asleep in a bed in his father’s back room. He woke from a dream with a startle. He was unable to remember the dream. The son lay on his back, the weighted blanket, that gift from his oldest daughter, draped over his body. His laptop rested on a folded blanket and a large wooden lap desk that his father told him was his to use while he was there. It may have been his father’s way of encouraging the son in his writing.

The writer’s visit with Eileen and Dave yesterday left him somewhat confused about the purpose of his work. The encounter left the writer wondering, “What is the purpose of all this writing?” Was he writing for the purpose of being published, or was he just writing for his own healing? 

Of course, the writer wanted to be published. Isn’t that what writers want? Isn’t that what the musician always wanted, an audience? (or a bigger audience, or an audience that truly came to listen?). The artist wants to be seen. To be heard. Or at least this artist did. He still wanted to be seen. To be heard. To be acknowledged.

Text from MOM:

Mom: Happy Monday (winking smiley face emoticon)

Son: Hi mom

Mom: hello…how’s your day?

Son: I’m okay. I’m at dad’s house. I just woke up from a nap. The kids are on their way to Caldwell to see Dan and Laronna

Mom: should I expect to see you tonight?

Son: No, not unless some kind of unforeseen emergency arises. I am sowing myself into the soil here. Making myself available for a miracle. Please pray for our peace. I trust the Christ.


The day before, While in Bentonville, Harbor Dave had given the aspiring writer some practical advice. The writer knew it was sound advice, he’d heard it before. One part of the advice went like this: “Show. Don’t tell.” The idea behind this being that the audience needs and wants to smell and taste and touch and hear and see the environment in which their beloved character is immersed. The audience does not want to be told about the character. The audience would rather experience the environment for themselves, they want to be there as the story unfolds,and the best way for this to happen is by allowing them to feel the world through the character’s senses. The writer truly had no way to know if he was even coming close to gifting his audience with this kind of experience. 

The next bit of advice from Harbor Dave was also simple, at least in concept: “Dialogue,” he said, “dialogue.”

Harbor Dave continued,“The audience wants to listen to your character interact with others,” Dave explained to the inexperienced writer as their feet crunched on the graveled paths in Bentonville. “They don’t care whether you can remember exactly how the conversation took place, but they want to know what it sounds like when your character speaks out loud. The audience wants to hear your character. The audience wants to hear the Universal voice in the dialogue between your Universal characters. Your audience wants to observe the characters reactions as they interact with one another. And they want to feel something coming out of that. Your audience wants to be reminded of what they already know, the truths that they know but that they have forgotten, those truths that are buried down so deep that they haven’t been in touch with them recently--or those truths that have yet to surface, that the listener is ripe to hear. That’s why the reader reads--to be reminded of these sacred things. The audience wants to know more about what your character is thinking and saying,” Dave reiterated.

The writer considered, for a long moment, Harbor Dave message. “I’ll have to come back to that,” he said, “thanks Dave.”

“Eileen,” said the writer as he shifted his attention from Dave, “What was it that you were telling me yesterday? What was the Universal Eileen saying? What is it that I heard from her as we met there on the Bentonville square?” What was the Universal Eileen saying, dear reader, as we walked those gravel trails?

“Look sweetie,” said the Universal Eileen, “I just want you to know that everything is okay. It’s okay to get naked. Everything that happens in the shower is beautiful! You just keep walking away and you just keep walking forward/toward/inward/onward. Keep taking those deep breaths--those breaths that give you an unusually large rib cage that kind of sticks out like your kids were pointing out to you. I just want you to know that I DO see you. You are seen by the Universal. Listen, you ARE safe. The Universe IS out to help you, and you are on a beautiful path of discovery that I just want to bless right now. Waking up is a process, my dear, and you are right where you need to be in the middle of all that. I know how to play just like you do, believe me, my friend. There is nothing you can do that’s gonna freak me out, because I have been there. I have been where you are. I have run around my house for days without any clothes on and my kids came over and had to make peace with that. The ambulance came to my house and I had to go away for a little bit and I had the honor of making peace with that too. I am familiar with medical leave, my dear. So, there’s not a bit of judgment about that coming from this direction. You are on the path, because everything IS the path. Be patient as you watch this all unfold. Know that you are held. Know that you are loved. Know that you are supported. And most of all….most of all…remember that none of what’s happening right now is nearly as important as you think it is, and it doesn’t mean what you think it does! Money? Do you remember what Rumi said the other day? Remember sweetie, it was on page 72. This is what he said:

The copper of your being
Has already been transmuted to gold
By Moses Alchemy, and yet you fumble
In a moneybag for loose coins
			Rumi (translation Barks)

You’re worried about money? Sweetie, don’t worry about money. I know people who lived out of their cars for a while, and that was exactly what they needed. It brought them into a deeper experience. So you just don’t worry about what you are going to eat. And you don’t worry about what you are going to wear. Look at the monkey grass in your dad’s backyard and how it’s nice and green and healthy in the middle of winter. You see those plastic ducks in your dad’s cement pond? Well you are buoyant, just like those ducks floating on that water, my dear. You get to stop fumbling through your moneybag for loose coins. I give you permission to be this, I give you permission to be the you that you have always known you were. Matthew 5. Am I right, sweetie? Didn’t you always admire that about the one that you so affectionatley call Jesus for all those years?  Remember Dear, you are not obligated to take all of this too seriously. And believe me, that’s a gift that this world needs very dearly. As you allow the matrix to crumble around you, you are bringing this gift into the world. You remember that man outside the bus station when you were younger? The one in whom I showed you freedom? Do you remember who you went home and shared that with? You are not obligated to make your ex-wife happy, and although you may be legally obligated to provide child support…well, let’s just say that you can’t get blood out of a turnip, my dear. And if your ex-wife (or rather, that person that your ex-wife thinks she is) is hell-bent on squeezing the shit out of turnips, then so be it. But, let me just say that you also can’t get shit out of a turnip. So, in all reality, she’s just gonna be shit out of luck, and that’s gonna be exactly what she needs. She can squeeze turnips from here to your grandma’s house, but she can’t squeeze you. Remember those three big blue books that you were resting your laptop on at the adobe house? What does the course say, dear? What does it say? Do you remember? “Nothing that is real can be threatened. Nothing that is unreal exists.” So, if you are feeling threatened, what do you do? You just give thanks that what is false in you is passing away. Your prayers are being answered. Isn’t that the prayer that you’ve been praying for a year now. How long have you been praying that third step prayer? Do you remember what it says? Of course you do. “Relieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do your will.” Well, this is one way in which that prayer is being answered. You are not obligated to take all this too seriously. And, you really don’ have to worry. And…listen to me, dear… YOU DON’T HAVE TO GO BACK TO LIVING A MISERABLE LIE. Misery is completely optional here. You aren’t on some kind of vacation right now that must come to an end. You are answering a legitimate calling on your life, and it was true when the Christ said that you are not obligated to worry. So, don’t worry. And lastly, why don’t you just go ahead and put a little book mark right here, because you may need to come back and read this message. This is the new message from the Source. The new message from the Universal which comes from the same source which Eileen’s first email came from. There may be some more I want to say here as you read through it again. 

The meeting with Eileen and Dave (Dave and Eileen) started like this:

Yes. The aspiring writer stood on the square in Bentonville. The air was cold. The sky was grey. Can you see him, dear reader? He is reaching into the pocket of his olive jacket. Yes, dear reader, he is taking a picture. The middle aged man took a landscape shot of Sam-Walton’s first business, the mother of all Wal-Marts. Sam’s old Ford Pickup sat there, just across the street, enshrined for a capitalist’s eternity in front of his five and dime, where all the magic that we experience today as we cross the Wal-Mart’s threshold began. As the writer stood, immersed in his screen, attempting to send this picture to a friend with whom he’d once visited this very sight, he felt warm hands wrapping around his waist from behind.

“Oh my goodness!” he proclaimed, before even turning around to see who it was, “It’s so good to see you!” he said as his eyes met Eileen’s.

Eileen smiled. They hugged. And over Eileen’s shoulder he saw Dave, just fifteen feet away! They had appeared! Harbor Dave and the Universal Eileen. 

Dave welcomed the middle-aged-man to Bentonville with a smile. They exchanged embraces and polite greetings.

“I didn’t realize it would be so cold,” said Dave. “I kind of hoped we’d be able to sit out here on the square, but it’s a bit too much for that, I think. Are you hungry?”

“Yes, I am,” said the man in the olive jacket, “I haven’t had much to eat today.”

“Okay,” said Dave, “there’s a diner just over here. Lunch is on us. My son is feeding us all the time. He’s a chef, a real foodie. But I still think I could eat.”

Dave lead the three of them along the West end of the square until they came to a café on the corner called the Pressroom. The sounds of the restaurant bounced off solid, grey concrete floors. The acidic smell of coffee rose from behind the large island bar. The hostess lead the three of them to a square table on the other side of the coffee and wine bar. Another party of five were already well into their meal, consuming somberly in a little cubby under a multi-colored, textured light fixture.

“How will I keep this up?” thought the writer as he lay on his back at his father’s house. 
“What is the point of all these details?”

“Just keep going,” said Harbor Dave, “You’re creating a space for something to happen here. Just put in the work here. Give yourself to this space. Allow this space to create itself, and then just see what happens.” 

The writer laying on his father’s bed wanted to object. His heart was broken somehow. He was exhausted by his meeting yesterday with Dave and Eileen. He felt somehow disappointed and deflated, like he didn’t get exactly what he’d wanted, even though he’d tried to shore himself up against any such disappointments (He’d rather say that he had surrendered himself to the will of God surrounding the possibility of disappointments, but how could he really know for sure. Something in him was being threatened, that seemed certain). He knew things were never what he thought they were. But, it also seemed that he still had to go through the emotions of it all. He still had to suffer the disappointments even though he knew that things were never what they first appeared to be.

“What did the three talk about? Those three who sat perusing their menues at the pressroom in Bentonville? What was their dialogue that day” wondered the writer. There was a wet spot on the bed where the father’s little chihuaha, Spud, had peed just a couple of hours ago. The wet spot had spread. 

The writer continued his inquiry, the inquiry made by someone who was trying to hear the universal message over the chatter of his own wounded-children. “What was important? What happened there? More importantly, what was being said by the Universe as the three of them came together yesterday? What was the take home?” The writer was trying to see. This was his practice today. To experience the Universal.

Dave, Eileen, and the middle-aged-man found their seats at the café.  The writer placed his black and red computer bag under the table. In the bag was Rumi, and Hafiz, and the book about the Christ that the Christ did not write. Also in the bag, his laptop, this story, the musings that were saving his life. 

He was seated now at a round table now with Dave and Eileen. He was facing the Northwest. The table sat at a forty five degree angle to the lines of the building. Dave was across from him facing South-East. Eileen was to the man’s right, facing South-West (Editor’s note: It was in this way that the writer who recalls this meeting acknowledges the whole of our being as represented by the cardinal directions in the Plotkin model. I think we’re going to need that to get through this next part. Yes. I am still here, dear reader. I am the one who is exploring the past. I flesh-out a little bit of the story hear and there. I am the one who searches for the Universal. I am the one who tries to establish through-line. I am the one who seeks healing as I move through the next chapters).

The son lay in the quiet of the back room of his father’s house. The silver ceiling fan turned over head. Would he be able to hear what Dave and Eileen had to say today? More importantly, would he be able to receive the Universal message that was mixed in with what Dave and Eileen were saying. 

“We’ve all got these egos,” thought the aspiring writer, “we all project and reflect. The question is: Can I experience the Universal Presence?” There was a part of him that had been quite terrified as he listened to Dave and Eileen yesterday—a part of him that felt threatened. “So let’s allow that part of us to dissolve. Or we might allow that part of us to come home. Yes. Let’s allow that threatened one, the prodigal son, to return home. Can I experience the Universal presence? Well, can I? Father?” 

The insecure writer (or a wounded child?) wondered if Dave had shared his writing tips because Dave had noticed some kind of deficiency in the writer’s voice. The word, “marketable,” was mentioned. The aspiring writer—the sensitive artist—the threatened son was not sure how he was feeling about what had transpired yesterday between himself and Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave).

“Who is my audience?” thought the man who lay there on the bed in his father’s back room. This morning, as he’d showered at his mother’s house (so much happened in the shower) he understood his audience to be his descendants. As the warm water poured over the man’s body, he hoped and imagined that, in this story, with these words, he was leaving an inheritance for his children’s children. He hoped that these words would let them know that he had been here. He wanted to communicate to them some sign of the great Waking-Up. The man in the shower felt concern for the future generations. He wanted them to be well. He asked that these words be a prayer for the continued awakening of his descendants.

But now, in this moment, his outlook was not as hopeful. He felt the writing project falling apart underneath his feet. He had secretly hoped that he was finding his footing in a new “calling” or a new “profession.” But the meeting with Dave and Eileen at the pressroom seemed deconstructive (well, isn’t that what the death of the false-self so often feels like, dear reader? It is uncomfortable, is it not? when our egos are threatened?) 

He met with Dave and Eileen, two writers who had been writing and marketing for quite some time apparently, for how long he did not know. He sat at the pressroom with the owners of a publishing company, two people who are in the business of creating something that is marketable, and he could hear that in their voices, and he felt threatened (may all that can be threatened return home to the Great I AM). 

He sensed his own inexperience in his relationship with the two of them. He felt that they may have related to him through his own inexperience. He felt exposed. Vulnerable. These are the best words that the aspiring, student-writer had to describe how he felt about the experience with Dave and Eileen yesterday. 

His drive home was brutal as his body was desperately seeking asleep. He felt that he’d lost all his momentum. 

The writer breathed in. He breathed out. He waited at the fork. He breathed at the binary.

“What was the purpose of the Rucker Brothers Album?” he asked himself. The Rucker Brothers album was the creative music project that he self-published with his friend back in 2006. The man continued wondering, “It was never published. Was it ever heard? Did it make a difference in this world? Did it make a difference in my world? It was an excellent album—I can hear the heart of the album. I can hear the excellence of it today, thirteen years later. But, it was not marketable. Or, at least, we did not know how to market it. The Rucker Brothers album was produced and distributed in an ineffective grass roots fashion with seemingly no effect whatsoever on the world (that judgment is probably a little harsh). But, his youngest daughter had asked for a copy this morning. 

“So, it had some kind of effect now, didn’t it? There it is, see? Your descendants being effected by the music,” The writer was very pleased by the way that connection had positively affected his heart.”

Yes! The youngest daughter had asked for a copy of the CD that the middle-aged-man had produced thirteen years ago. It mattered to her! It was a little piece of her history, the sounds on that album. The middle-aged-man and his daughter had listened to the CD earlier that day as they were on their way to lunch. 

“Daddy,” she said.

“Yes daughter,” said the man in the olive jacket as he was driving them to lunch at Louie’s on lake Hefner in his little blue Toyota. (his son-in-law sat in the back seat with the man’s guitar and mandolin.)

“Do you have a copy of this CD that I can have? I don’t have one.”

They were listening to the Rucker Brothers album as they drove down the Kilpatrick Turnpike. They took the elevated curve to the South, which then transported them to the Hefner Parkway.

“Father?” said the writer, “Is this the purpose of the writing? Could this writing that I am doing now be something positive for my children? Is this what the world needs? Does the world need another book? There’s a lot of books already? Are there not enough books, Father?”

“Purposes are hard to nail down from your current perspective,” said the Father, “The world is a complex and interconnected place. It’s impossible for you to see the whole purpose and effect of your actions. The important thing is just that you bring this creative Spirit into the world. The important thing is that you continue this birthing process, that you say “yes” to birthing the Christ Child into the world, whether you are birthing at an inn or a manger. Just keep letting me get you pregnant (Oh my God, is it the father that gets the son pregnant? The writer snickered). Just keep birthing the Christ child into the world. It changes you in the very least.”

“Father?” said the man again, “As long as your are here…What was the purpose of the meeting yesterday with Dave and Eileen? Was it so I could be reminded to “Show, don’t tell”?

“Do you remember what the course in miracles was telling you this morning?” said the Father.

“Yes,” said the son, “A course in miracles was telling me that my thoughts were meaningless. It didn’t ask me to believe that my thoughts were meaningless all day long. It just asked me to to consider that my thoughts were meaningless for one minute, five times in a day. 

Then the blue book chimed in, “That’s right, not all the time. Just five times. One minute at a time. Remind yourself that your thoughts are meaningless. Just allow that to be. Can you let all of this go right now? Can you let all this search for meaning go for just a minute right now?” said the course in miracles. “Can you do that right now? For yourself? Can you just allow yourself to be? This practice will help release you from all that you believe.”

“But the TV is loud in the next room and I’m afraid of my dad,” thought the son who lay there under the silver ceiling fan. 

The internal father spoke now “Son,” he said, “we are here together. We can do this together.”

“Just for one minute, remind yourself that it’s okay for all your thoughts, your dreams, your desires, your needs to become meaningless. Let’s try. Come on.”

My thoughts about Dave and Eileen do not mean anything
My thoughts about this book do not mean anything
My thoughts about myself do not mean anything
My thoughts about that swimming pool do not mean anything
My thoughts about my father do not mean anything
My thoughts about my ancestors do not mean anything
My thoughts about my descendants do not mean anything
My thoughts about psych units and treatment centers…they don’t mean anything
My thoughts about my hands on this computer don’t mean anything
My thoughts about the dupytren contracture in my hand don’t mean anything

“Can I do myself the favor of releasing all of these thoughts that don’t mean anything?” thought the son who was writing this book at his father’s house. 

The son who was now in bed, facing South, repeatedly bumped his head on the only piece of art on the North wall. The decoration on which he bumped his head was a large arrangement of concentric circles, all differing in size and overlapping one another. The piece was four feet high and two feet wide. The man kept bumping his head.

“Am I available? Am I? I AM?” said the man in the hooded olive jacket. His jacket felt like home.

“Can I listen to one breath, without placing any words in its mouth?” The man did just that.

Can I drop these identities for a moment? 
Can I allow myself to let them go?
Can I let this book go?
Can I touch my fingers with my thumb? Can I see what that feels like?”

There you go…one finger at a time. Just like that. Excellent.

The generative nurturing adult, who was making himself present in the middle-aged-man asked these questions. And in the asking of these questions, he gave those fearful parts of his being some reassurance--those parts of his being that felt threatened—those fragmented parts of his being were given the space and the time that they needed to integrate. The man in the hooded olive jacket was learning to let go. He was entering into a dialogue with those hurting parts of himself. And, he would hopefully learn to write dialogue, thanks to Harbor Dave and the Univeral (Ei) Lean.

And so it came to pass that the man kept with this form. So it came to pass that he continued collecting these thoughts under the title of The Moth, The Mountain, and the Middle-Aged-Man. So it was that he continued in the compassionate meaninglessness. 

“What is important here? What is really going on? What is the nature of reality in this moment?” These are the questions that he continued to ask. 

And this is how the man found himself asking the Univeral questions as he moved forward with the writing project:

“Father?” asked the son.

“Yes, Son?” the internal father responded

“what time is it? I want to be a writer, father.” The son blurted out before allowing any space between the questions.

“Do you, son? Are you sure that’s what you want to be? I’d like you to consider your desire? Just sit with that for a while. Is that what you really want to be? Or is there something more that you desire?”

The middle-aged man rose up from his reclined position facing South. The man transferred his laptop and the wooden lap desk (provided by the man’s father) to a North facing seated position in a brown swivel-chair textured with spirals. The swivel chair was a little wobbly. The wooden lapdesk provided the appropriate support for his writing. 

He looked out onto his father’s back yard where he saw a swimming pool populated with plastic lilies and two orange-billed ducks . This was where his children learned to swim. Beyond the pool, he saw a garden decoration swaying in the wind, a bright yellow plastic sunflower towering above the green monkey grass. 

“Father?”
“Yes, son?”
“What kind of trees are those?”
“let’s ask,” said the father.

After twelve days of writing and relatively little sleep the middle-aged man was tired. He was looking for some kind of resolution. He was searching for the end of this real-time journey. But, he was also not ready to give this journey up prematurely. He felt that he was falling apart. He felt small after his visit with Eileen and Dave. He felt inexperienced. He felt naïve. He wanted to be held. 

His father was in the next room. His father, the man who was never held, the man who could never hold him.

The son clung to his project, a life raft of form in a world that was dying around him. His world was passing away, and he was documenting its passing. When the man dropped his nets to follow the Christ he had actively said “yes” to his own death. Yet, he clung to this project even as he was unable to find a through line. He clung to the project as he showered. He clung to the project in the car. he clung to the project as he ate with his family at Louie’s on lake Hefner. He clung to it as he became willing to let it go. He clung to it because he trusted the dialogue that was being born in himself. He clung because this was the form that Life offered today. He clung because it was his artist’s survival instinct to crawl into the reed basket that floated by.

His father belched in the living room as he watched TV. The gastrointestinal explosion bounced off the hard tile and sheetrock. The son remembered those belches from his childhood. The son was tired. 

His father was in the next room. Here he was at his father’s home where he intended to spend the night. Can you see the son there, dear reader? He has gone to the place that scares him. Do you see him there as he sits on the wobbly swivel chair. Do you see him, dear reader, as he gathers courage?

He remembered something that he read several months ago. “If you want to find out just how awake you really are, go spend a week with your parents. See what happens.” 

“It doesn’t matter if you remember exactly what the people said,” said Dave, “just as long as you get to the heart of the dialogue.” (This was not exactly what Dave had said, but it was exactly the point).

“What dialogue might develop between the middle-aged-man and his father if the writer chose to stop streaming these words. What if the writer took a break? What if the son went to visit his father in the next room? What if the son went in there with the man who belches?” thought the writer.

“Dave and Eileen spoke to me yesterday as if they knew and I did not. Well, that’s how I felt about Dave and Eileen,” said a wounded-child. The son was nervous that the wounded children were out to play. The wounded-children were not exactly safe at dad’s house. 

“Why am I feeling so hurt?” wondered the middle-aged-man. “Is that even a helpful question in this moment?” 

The man felt threatened. The man felt hurt. The man felt small. The man felt scared. The man felt that he was not being heard, and that he would never ever be heard again.

His father belched in the next room. The belch rang off the cold tile and the sheetrock.

“What about the trees in the back yard? That might be a good place to start a dialogue?” said the generative, nurturing Adult. The son was aware that his dad had cut down many trees in order to make that backyard the hospitable place that it now was.

The man in the olive jacket felt that he was out on the edge. This felt like one of the most dangerous places for him to be. His mother knew it. She was worried. He felt it. Were the wounded children afratid that they were going to die here? Were the wounded-children afraid they were going to die? 

There were no mushrooms. There was no Eli. There was no Dan. And the man’s mother was all the way across town. He sat looking out the sliding door in his father’s extra bedroom. He wanted to be rescued--Rescued by these words.  Rescued by meaning. Rescued by purpose. Rescued by an identity. He wanted to feel like he was a writer. But he did not feel that way. He felt like a man with no job who was at his father’s house—the father who belches and belches as he watches TV.

“Are you okay? How can I help?” said the generative nurturing Adult.
“That line of thought will not serve me right now”, said the man.

He got on his knees and prayed the third step prayer which he’d learned from his friends in AA. Then he went out to meet his father for the first time, again.
 
God, I offer myself to you
Build with me
Do with me as you will
Relieve me of the bondage of self
That I may better do your will
Take away my difficulties 
That those I bear witness to 
May experience your love
Your power 
And your way of life
May I do your will today
May I do your will always

“Is this the miracle today, Father?”

Day 12
7:05PM

The son ventured out into the living room. He walked to the window. He looked out into the backyard. His father was there with him in the living room. His father was there.

“What kind of trees are those? Out in your backyard,” said the son.

“What’s that?” said the father.

“What kind of trees are those, Dad? Didn’t you spend quite a bit of time chopping a bunch of trees down out there to make it so nice?” said the son. 

“I’m not quite sure,” said the father, “I think there’s a mix of trees back there.”

From the kitchen, Kathy, his wife proclaimed, “There are some hackberry trees out there. There’s a bunch of hackberries.”

And so it was that the son and father began to talk to one another on that thirtieth day of December in the year of 2019. Once again they had come together. How many times had this happened? How many times had it un-happened with hurt feelings and disappointment?

The son felt apprehension, fear as he sat with his father that day in the living room. The son went low, to the carpet. He began to stretch his hamstrings. Breathing in deeply he extended and flexed his trunk, remembering the kundalini awakening, the rising of the feminine serpent from the root chakra. The son faced the fork in the road many times in the early stages of the conversation. “The tongue of the serpent is forked,” he heard from somewhere in his inner being. He stepped carefully. 

Earlier in the day, there was a sign at Louie’s which advised patrons to “watch your step.” A woman, ignoring the sign, had stumbled down the steps and fallen into the middle-aged-man as he sat eating with his family. He and this woman shared a moment—it was just like in the movies when a woman falls into a man. The middle-aged-man felt a genuine concern for the woman’s welfare. He enjoyed meeting people when they were in a moment of humility, stripped of their sure footing. It felt honest. 

So now, the son watched his step as he related to the father. Gently. Kindly. Compassionately. He watched his step. Do you see him there, dear reader? There he sits stretching his hamstrings on his father’s rug. Do you see him flexing and extending his trunk, dear reader? He is listening to his father. He is being gentle with himself and with his father.

The father had different stories--Stories that the son had never heard before. The father had been digging in a deeper region of his traumatic childhood memories. The father began the retelling of trauma stories.

The father fed him: homemade minestrone soup seasoned with fresh basil and rosemary and packed with fresh carrots, yellow squash, onions, and a dark kidney shaped bean. 

The writer felt was feeling positive about their interaction so far. He wondered if he and his father doing some travelling together. He could open some doors to his father to visit some people that he hadn’t seen in some time. His father had mentioned John Johnson, the father’s ex brother-in-law. The son released the vision of travelling with his father. 

“Let’s write a story together, Dad. Would you like to help me write this book?” the son imagined saying these words to his father.

What does it take to stop the generational curse? Can one go back in the generations and redeem the life that is left to live? 

After having his fill of minestrone, home-made beef jerky, and toasted pita bread coated with real butter,the middle-aged-man returned to the back room. It was there that he gave himself a peptalk.

“I am so tired. I need to sleep. I am exhausted. Depleted. I did not talk to my father about my current life. That is good. I did well. Everything is okay. It’s good. I didn’t have to defend myself. I didn’t have to compete with him. I allowed my Spirit to arise. We made peace. We allowed peace to arise from within ourselves.”

The writer continued talking to himself, “Being engaged with the world and writing seem to be two different things right now. Do I need to let go of the real-time thing? Right now I just need to go to sleep, I think.”

The middle-aged-man texted his friend Tim

Disciple: “Available tomorrow?”

Timothy: for breakfast. I have to be at the dentist at 11am.

Disciple: sounds good. when and where?


The middle aged man laid his head back on his pillow. He held his cell phone close to his chest. He did not take off his clothes. He fell asleep right there. Do you see the middle-aged-man, dear reader? There he is. He is falling asleep. He is wearing the olive jacket.


Day 12
9:47PM

The son, who slept on a cushiony inflatable mattress woke at his father’s house later that evening. The television played loudly through the wall behind him. He sat, supported by two pillows in the half-lotus. His father’s dog, Spud, the little Chihuahua barked. The son was facing South, away from the sounds emanating from the living room. He read.

“To speak of wildness is to speak of wholeness. 
We humans come from that wholeness.” 
Zen Poet, Gary Snyder

The television stopped. The son could hear his father brushing his teeth. The son longed for the quiet of night. 

He searched youtube for a Bill Plotkin video. He found himself drawn to the North.

This is what Bill was saying on the youtubes:

North—healing. Building. Creating. Serving people and greater earth community. Eco-centric (nature centered). Member of the greater earth community. 

South---wild indegenous one. Loves emotions. Loves being human animal. Natural kinship with other species. Feels at home in other habitats. Instinctive. Sexual and erotic and loves being embodied.

East—innocent/sage. Equally innocent and wise. Pure clear sensing capacity. Experiences the big picture. Loves paradox. Appears as a sacred fool who doesn’t really care about the norms and rules of society. Trickster: the one who laughs at our extraordinary and weird human nature

West—muse beloved. Muse and inner beloved. Deeply imaginitive. Creative. Finds solutions and understandings that come from the depths. Loves the darkness. The unknown. Has a love affair with dreams, with unconscious, and undoing, and decaying of things. Death fully embraced. Most interested in the mysteries of the soul.

Plotking (Plot King? Hmmm…interesting…what is the plot?)… Plotkin says that we are born with a strength in only one of these areas but we must cultivate all of these facets of ourselves in order to be whole and healthy.

“Every human is born with these capacities, but we must learn to cultivate them,” said Bill.

“Yes, Bill. That’s what I’m getting too (nudge nudge). So, here we go then.” Said the writer.


The father turned on another television. Monday night football. No quiet yet. Commercials. The son wished for peace. He breathed in deeply, rediscovering the peace within himself. The news now, “a massacre in Texas.” The father shut his bedroom door, which distinctly muffled the noise of the television. Praise be for the closing of the threshold.

He wondered what Hafiz was doing?

Yesterday I sent a message
As clear and steady as a star

You that turn stoniness to gold
Change me

I showed you the longing
And rocked my own chest
Like an infant
To hush it from crying

Undo your breast
Take me back to loves first place
Where we were in union

How much longer
Do I have to wander apart?

I will be quiet now and patient,
Waiting for you to turn and look.

Next, the writer began transcribing the voice recordings from his trip to Bentonville. At some unnoticed point in his work the house became silent. The writer acknowledged the quiet. He allowed the stillness to fill him from the inside out. He listened in.

As he gave himself to this silence, dialogue and encounters began coming faster than the writer could recount them. He took a position on the couch, once again facing North. He oriented himself to the kitchen in the adobe house. 

Growing up at the crossroads of I-35 and I-40 in Oklahoma city had given him an understanding of the quadrants (Hello Ken!  Mr Wilber! Praise be to Ken for the four quadrants I, WE, IT, ITS) Everything above I-40 was North. Everything below, South. Everything to the left of I-35 was West. And everything to the Right was East. This is the orientation that the middle-aged-man had grown up with, at a great commercial crossroads.

As the middle-aged-man sat facing North in his father’s extra room, Bentonville was to his right and forward of his frontal plane. Mexico was behind him. Kansas and Canada were directly ahead. California was way off there to the left, where the sun would set. And to his right was New York, where he expected he may see the sun rise tomorrow morning through the large glass sliding door right there in his father’s extra bedroom.

Bill Plotkin said that every individual was naturally oriented toward one of the Cardinal directions. He said that the opposite of the one that we are naturally oriented toward is the most difficult to develop. The writer wondered if the North was the direction that he was naturally oriented toward. “Is it this generative and nurturing adult who has brought me this far on my journey?” 

The writer realized that he was no longer writing he book. These words had come to represent his practice. The form was a life raft to which he clung. A scaffolding around which he was allowing himself to encounter the Source. This North-facing-being was relying on the intuition of the Generative-One to hold him while he was here at his father’s house.

“Is a visit to my grandmother’s in order?” he wondered. A visit to his last living grandparent. Yes, this is where his heart was. She was the Rose from which his Universal Glow had sprung.

The middle-aged-man then sent an email to his old friend, Brian Neeley. Brian had been on his heart. He wondered if he might connect with him while he was in town. It had been almost five years since he’d seen him last.

Travis Erwin <travisrwn1@gmail.com>
	9:56 PM (1 hour ago)		 
 
to inkling405
 
	
Hey Brian!. I'm looking for some plate spinning lessons. I broke all my dishes! Do you have any time?

In Christ
Generative, nurturing adult

Brian was the most malleable square that the middle-aged-man had ever known. He truly was a square—like firefighter square, you know: chiseled jaw, stout neck, and broad shoulders. “How does he experience so much success and yet stay so humble?” wondered the middle-aged-man. “And just how does he keep all those plates spinning?” More than twenty years ago, Brian introduced to a much younger man, the art of “plate spinning.” Brian, was an enigma to the middle-aged-man--Openess and success existing on such high levels. It was something that bewildered the middle-aged-man. He had often aspired to be more like Brian.

After sending the text to his old friend, he reoriented himself directionally. The awareness of his grandmother up there in Kansas returned.

“I like being me,” thought the middle-aged-man to himself. “What a strange way to be. How is it that I find myself situated at this great crossing today?” He found himself, right there at the crossing of two great roads--the crossroads of his origin. 

And Yes! He found himself oriented according to the directions and quadrants. “Yes. Big Picure is appropriate for this journey,” the middle-aged-man reassured himself.

The traveller could hear the drone of a large truck on Northwest Expressway. The traveller, when he was much younger had once written a truckin’ song that his extended family requested him to play at events.

I remember that look on her face
In that big ol’ sideview mirror on my rig
The silver eagle on the hood
Just looked at me and grinned
He knew we were on the road again

But now there’s rain
I roll on skippin’ on into San Antone
Now there’s rain
I roll on because san antone is home

That ol’ bird dog she’s a tal
George Jones he’s a strummin’ dulce
Those steel belt’s are hummin’ dulce harmony…

Sweet rain sows my seed for home
And I can feel it every turn
Of the wheel and the road and the numbers on my dash
So I roll on in the rain…

The middle-aged man picked up his guitar and tried to retrieve the rest of the lyrics from his deep memory, but he could not.

The nurturing adult reminded the middle-aged-man of his next nurse practitioner visit coming up on January sixth. It was this appointment that would extend his medical leave at work. The nurse would possibly confirm that he was unable to perform his duties. The middle-aged-man wondered if he might be allowed to do the appointment over the phone if he was not back from Oklahoma City by then. The middle-aged man was reminded that he was still employed. 

The writer closed his eyes and rested.

Day 13
12:20AM

The writer woke up from a short nap.
The quiet of the night deepened

“Who was this middle-aged-man who showed up in Bentonville?” he asked himself. And, Can this next question be asked very gently? What about the subs? Those subpersonalities? Those wounded children? Those outcasts? Aren’t we the ones who need some help here? 

Was it I, dear reader, this rejected one, who was scared in Bentonville?

And what about me? This embarrassed one? Yes. What had happened to me when I felt my writing was lacking? Or, when I wondered if I’d let my manic become too visible with Dave and Eileen.

The middle-aged-man changed his phone from mountain to central time. It was 12:24AM. He was on day 13 of this real-time writing project, which had become the impetus, form, and orientation for his life. 

The father of the middle-aged-man slept in the West bedroom.

The writing project had felt threatened ever since he’d left Bentonville.

“Nothing that is real can be threatened. Nothing that is unreal exists,” he heard the course in miracles saying.
 
“Okay,” responded the man in the hooded olive jacket, “then I suppose that whatever is real about this writing project cannot be threatened, and therefore whatever in me feels threatened by the interaction that I had with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave)—that’s all free to pass away. In fact I ask that God (Life) would help me to surrender whatever falseness it is in me that is feeling threatened. I’m ready to help these wounded-children, these ones who need help finding their way back home.” The middle-aged-man was comforted when the nurturing adult showed up. He looked up from his laptop and oriented himself directionally.

What had happened yesterday with those three as they sat in the Pressroom eating chicken?

The waitress told the story of the grasshopper and the ants. “The ants gathered food while the grasshopper just played. The winter came. The grasshopper got hungry. He knocked on the ants door…”

The middle-aged-man interrupted. “Isn’t it the natural life cycle of the grasshopper to die in the winter… I’m no entymologist,” continued the middle-aged-man, “but I think that most grasshoppers generally die in the winter. It’s just the way of things. The death of the grasshopper. It’s a story reinforcing conventional wisdom. Conventional wisdom? Ah, yes it is very helpful. God bless us in our need for conventional wisdom. But also, what about another wisdom that embraces and expands out past the conventional? Can we include that? Can we aspire to that? Can we surrender to that? 

Was the story of the grasshopper inspired by an innate disposition to want to make sure everybody is doing their share? That’s reasonable. That’s very human. That’s okay. I’m not here to make a case against conventional wisdom. Because conventional wisdom is a very needed and valuable presence.”

Dear reader: the preceding two paragraphs were not even close to the actual words that the middle-aged-man used as he addressed the waitresses grasshopper story. Those were a weeks later invention of this editor character.

Incoming Text:

The middle-aged-man just noticed a text that Tim had sent earlier:

Tim: let’s meet at IHOP on NW Expressway between Rockwell and Council at 9am.

The middle-aged-man, once again, noticed himself feeling threatened. He was concerned that Tim had not invited him into his home. The middle-aged-man had always enjoyed an open invitation into the Bence’s home. Once, he’d even felt so at home that he cleaned their refrigerator.  But now, IHOP? Had he been demoted? “Is it because Tim knows about the mushrooms?” wondered the middle-aged-man.

And so it came to pass that the writer was in touch with his fears and insecurities as he sat in one of the most dangerous places in the world, his father’s house. And as he reached out to new friends in Dave and Eileen. And as he reached out to an old friend in Tim…

“Can I allow myself to be right here?” he thought to himself (to himself?…of course it was “to himself,” all thoughts are to one’s self). Can I allow myself to be right here? Can I allow myself to be right here?” The question came over and over again. 

Another question came. “Who is this ‘self’ that I am referring to?” The man wondered what part of his self was feeling threatened. Who is this self that is insecure? Who is this self that is afraid that he is not a talented enough writer? Who is this self that is concerned about how Tim feels about him? Who is this self that is still afraid of his father?

The middle-aged-man. This son. He felt exhausted again. He placed his laptop and phone on their chargers. He turned off the lights. He crawled under the weighted blanket. He breathed in. He breathed out.





Dreamed emma and I were trying to retreive something that she thought was on this jet. Gat e 2B. we were allowed to get on the plane to search. As I was boarding I realized that my backpack had never been searched so I turned around as emma continued into the plane, searching for what she had lost. I turned around because I was afraid that I had a pocket knife in my backpack and that I’d be in big trouble if it was found out that my bag was never searched and I had the knife. So I walk out of the boardin gate and into the hall. They close the door to the jet which is headed to europe. I am panicking trying to get someone’s attention. A woman approaches me and holds me right at the threshold of the boarding gate. She is saying something to me. She is warning me not to cross the threshold but my dauher is on that plane. I expcect that maybe emma got off and she will show up nd surprise me. I cross the threshold trying to get someones attention . I am declaring an emergency but no one will listen. No one will listen and now emma is on her way to europe with no help and no money and no luggage and no me. I was timid. I let her get on the jet by herself. Why wasn’t I with her?

Day 13
6:00 AM

The Traveller—the Son---The middle-aged man--awoke from a dream of the Universal Eileen. He was unable to remember the dream. He scrolled back in his draft to the message that he received yesterday this morning to read again what she had spoken to him last night. Maybe there was something she wanted to add. She did, and you, my dear descendent have already read it (if you’ve been approaching this text chronologically).


The traveller—the son—the middle-aged man. They awoke from a dream of the Universal Eileen, unable to recall any details. As suggested, he scrolled back to Her message of Yesterday. 

Oracle--A person through whom a deity is believed to speak

The traveller was scheduled to meet with another oracle this morning. The man called Tim, whose family had given so much love. This man Tim, around whom the middle-aged-man now was experiencing so much insecurity, feeling somehow that he was not trusted anymore, or somehow unworthy of Tim’s trust. 

Mushrooms. Divorce. Tim didn’t have a good feeling about the middle-aged-man walking away from his job. Is Tim a fundamentalist? (Oh no…the middle-aged-man certainly didn’t want to get into any name calling here. Tim, the mystic. That fits him better. He’s a comapassionate-Christ-centered-mystic). Tim was the mystic—the oracle—that had invited him to IHOP. The disciple had asked for living room time. “I had a vision of sitting in your living room,” is what he had told Tim. But, he got IHOP. Ah yes, dear reader, do you see now how the middle-aged-man struggles with his insecurities? Do you see how he intends to release expectations, but then struggles? Is this the process, dear reader? Can we allow this process in our dear middle-aged-man? May we witness this man’s struggle with as little judgment as possible? Compassionate witness? Would it be helpful to call it that?

It had do with the fact that the middle-aged-man was feeling threatened. “What do I know about feeling threatened?” the man asked himself. The very first lesson from the ACIM text came to him, as it semed to be doing recently.

“Nothing that is real can be threatened.”
“Nothing that is unreal exists.”

The writer sat cross-legged on the inflatable mattress at his father’s house. “Christ carries the cross. Hands and feet are nailed. He’s raised up in shame. He slowly loses his strength to exhale the air in his lungs. 

He became this message. He was this message:

“Nothing that is real can be threatened.”
“Nothing that is unreal exists.”

“What was that he said?” asked the writer, his fingers curled over home-row.

“If you try to save your life, you will lose it
But if you give up your life, you will surely save it”

“It turns out okay either way,” wrote the writer, “because as we try to protect our life we are lead right in to the necessary misery—the misery that becomes our impetus to surrender. At least that’s what my experience has shown me. As long and as painful as that process may be sometimes. Will you help this man find his freedom, dear reader?”

Through the large glass door, the middle-aged-man saw there on the horizon, through the trees, the promised colors of the new dawn.

The son could hear his father piddling around the house (that’s what his grandfather used to call it, “piddling”. It was the way a body moved about without any specific conscious purpose, doing what a body does in its surroundings, tending to its belongings and its environment. That was what the man understood the word “piddling”to mean. Praise be to the piddling Grandfather. The one they called Vince).

The man was torn now between his writing and his piddling-father in the next room. He took the word “torn” to be the most recent manifestation of the binary. The fork in the road. The fork in the snake’s tongue. The left or the right. So, he waited. 

He acknowledged that which was beyond the binary. He acknowledged that which was beyond shame, and guilt, and obligation, and duty. He acknowledged the non-path. He acknowledged the synthesis. He offered himself some space. He gave himself permission to be exactly where he needed to be. He asked for help from a deeper source. He allowed this communion to happen. He came to that place of rest on the floor. He found the ancient water droplet, the one who shines from deep within. The one who evaporates. The one who sinks into the soil. The one who has no jealousy for the stream. The one who is still. The one who moves at the speed of life.

The son became the water droplet. The son evaporated into the living room where his father was no longer piddling, but sitting, in the dark. “Hey,” said the son. No response. The father slept in his favorite chair. 

The son took a seat on the neighboring couch, facing South toward the Wild Indigenous one. The sun was rising in the East through a large picture window. The glowing horizon backlit the innumerable naked branches of the trees in his father’s backyard. Closest to the horizon was a beckoning orange, which gradated to a brilliant white, then transmuted toward a deep midnight blue, which reached into the still dark sky. The stones in the gas fireplace glowed red as they were excited by the flames—and those flames contained in themselves the same blues and oranges of the sunrise. 

His father, silently breathing from his westerly-shadowed position was the most still that the son had seen him, in possibly forever. The son entered into the old man’s sacred dream. Had this happened a thousand times? A thousand more? A clock ticked from the kitchen in the North. The old man stirred. He coughed. He took in a drink of water. He reached for his cell phone. The light was not enough to illuminate his face. Spud, the Chihuahua, entered the room growling. The ol’ man rose from his favorite chair to let the yellow animal pee in the front yard. The father left the door open. The cold air touched the son’s feet. The father closed the front door. Spud was in his arms. Then he found his way back to his chair. 

They had yet to acknowledge one another. The son sat in silent breath, his hands curled over home row.

The sky had changed. Soft yellow now, on the horizon, slowly faded into grey-blue as seen through the higher branches of th still back-lit trees. A single bird lit upon a branch, then she was gone. The heater kicked on. A squirrel now on a hackberry tree. The father flipped through a scrolling screen on his device. His wife stirred in her room on the North-East corner of the house. 

Tuesday was the day that Kathy spent all day at Synagogue. According to the father, she had a fervent messianic-judaism practice. Peace to the Jew who showed us how to give it away! Peace to the woman in the North-East room. Peace to the father who sat silently, scrolling through his cell phone.

The middle-aged-man was finding stillness in his father’s home, and he had observed his father in a rare moment. The man was able to hear his father’s breath that morning. Praise be to Yaweh, the breath of God. Praise be to the One Being. Praise be to the peace that the father and son were holding in that moment. Praise be to the orange and blue fires which excite the stones to glow their red. Praise be to the little yellow Spud dog who brought joy to the old man’s heart. 

The man clicked his laptop closed and placed it beside himself on the couch. He then lowered himself to the large living-room rug where he planned to stretch his hamstrings again. As he entered into a relaxed dialogue with his father, he found himself grateful. He stretched hamstrings and quads and found himself in all manners of novice yogic-activity as witnessed by his father that morning—all of which felt the most natural in terms of conversation and physical exertion.

He breathed deeply in his father’s presence. He read his father the excerpt that he had written as the sun rose and the father slept. They spoke together in the quietest of tones. The son did not remember ever speaking to his father with such peace in his heart. Kathy joined them and they laughed in the tile-floored sharply-reverberating living room.

The son shared with Kathy of his most recent public baptism. She encouraged him to root himself in the Word. He showed her his new bible. The son shared with her how he was writing scriptures of his own (an idea which appeared to strike fear in Kathy’s eyes). The son attempted to reassure her that he had no need for her to believe as he did. Were they side-stepping a clash of fundamentals? 

The son congratulated Kathy that she had found such peace in her church home. Kathy congratulated the middle-aged-man on his newly revived faith. Then she pointed sideways toward her husband and with half-hushed tones she was indicating the need to get the old-man on board. 

“We are all on board! We are all on board!” with laughter in his chest. the middle-aged man repeated the statement for emphasis, in agreement with the all-inclusive and broadening expanse of the Universal Christ consciousness. It was in this way that the middle-aged-man made peace with Kathy as she participated in the form that was working for her that day. It was in this way that the middle-aged-man began his day of making peace with old friends and old wineskins

It was in this way that the morning’s conversation with his father came to an end. The middle-aged-man located his keys and dawned his olive jacket. He bid farewell. He drove away from his father’s house and toward the IHOP on the Expressway.

(Shantaram
Gregory David Roberts) father’s book recommendation of the morning

Editor’s note: The editor becomes aware of just how deep into the shadow’s world he is embedded as he sings a simple song from his heart… “Is there a way by which we all come together.” His initial image is one of universal unity. But then the editor realizes that the song could double for a mission-statement at an orgie. Ahh, dear West. Is that where Vincent Van Gogh is from?

The editor smokes freely now. He relies on God to make his heart right around escapist and addict behaviors. He prays (how sincerely? How can we know? But he prays). He allows the wild one to be embodied in him. He carries a heavy gong in one hand and a beater in the other. He dances around the living room. He carries his flashlight in the cold morning air. He raises his hands above his head. He chants and sings in tongues. He asks for guidance. He asks for wisdom. He stands in front of the big fireplace in the adobe house. He plays the drums. He plays the piano. He speaks to the great healing mother of the North. He asks her to dissolve what is false. He prays for liberation. He prays for peace. He asks that the great mother would give him the wisdom to use the medicine. He asks that it would be medicine. He confesses to his great mother. He lays himself bear before her. He spends time with his hands outstretched. 

He went into a chrysalis state for two days. He imagined himself the goo inside a chrysalis (a cocoon). He wrapped the blankets tightly around him and slept nuch with the help of a antihistamine.


Day 13
5:05PM

Editor’s Note: It had been days since the editor had been able to look at this work. He was unable or unwilling to open the laptop to resume his relationship with these words. The days have been filled with escapism, addictive behavior, and the desiring of more than what-is. The marijuana is very important right now. It rescues him from despair. 

This meeting with Tim (which now approaches for the writer) is important because it is life-affirming for the middle-aged-man. There is also another meeting with his old friend Brian and his son Nash that the writer has yet to write about (This is also very important). These two meetings are very important because of what happens next. These two meetings show the middle-aged-man that he is valued. These two meetings show the man that he is not his father. 

Also, there is a conversation with Marl (important too). Why? Because the writer is able to speak up for himself directly after a difficult experience with his father. He and marl do not have a conflict. The nurturing adult shows up in the conversation, two nurturing adults meeting each other.

The editor took an ativan last night, left over from his last trip to a treatment center. He considered taking a heavy antihistamine today and just staying in bed all day long. The voices that just want life to be over were active this morning as the editor lay in bed. The nurturing adult listened to those voices with compassion while not identifying with them. The Editor now wants to go smoke marijuana because, well, this is just not enough right now. He wants more. He wants more.

The editor, dear reader, is right in the middle of something. He is releasing his disappointments in himself. He wrote a mandolin song yesterday, “a prayer to the North” because he knows that without intervention from a deeper power, he is fucked. He is unwilling and unable to resurrect himself (a false resurrection). He is down in this space where no one can save him, and there are so many more pages to go. Loneliness. Fear that he will always be alone. 
End editor’s note.

At precisely the speed of life the young man (for he truly felt young that day) steered his car into the IHOP parking lot. He found the silver-haired Timothy waiting at a booth in the Northwest corner of the restaurant. The middle-aged-man’s insecurities seemed nothing now in the presence of his friend. They embraced. The two men smiled. The young man felt true gratitude in his heart.

“I don’t ever want you to think I’m ignoring you when I don’t answer your texts. It’s just that I’m real busy, and I know a lot of people. I know so many people that it’s impossible for me to be close to all of them at once.” said Tim, as their initial greetings came to a close. 

“Well, truthfully Tim, it is challenge for me sometimes when you don’t answer. But it is a situation that I’m willing to accept to be in relationship with you. And, it causes me to dig deep—I’ve been called to growth in these past several weeks. I’d like to record your voice. Would you mind if I placed my phone right here in front of you, Tim?” said the younger man.

“No, not at all,” Timothy said.

It was in this way that he hoped to honor the older man’s wisdom while he continued his study of dialogue. Tim was an Evolutionary Christian Mystic who was still bound by some of the trappings of fundamentalism (as we all inevitably are bound by these forms that holds us). The younger man knew that Timothy was right where he needed to be. 

Timothy was one of the chiefs that he had seen in the Kachina dolls on that night of his first medicine journey. Do you see him, dear reader? The younger man is saying “yes” to Timothy just as Timothy has so graciously said “yes” to him for more than twenty years now. 

It was understandable that Timothy was right where he was, considering the circles in which he currently walked and where he had come from. It was understandable that the younger man was right where he was. Today, the younger man accepted his silver haired friend. He acknowledged the great wisdom and grace that abides deeply within.

Tim explained to the younger man that because he was involved, on some level, in so many people’s lives that sometimes he engaged in multi-tasking.

Here are some excerpts from the conversation as recorded that day as the two old friends sat in the Northwest corner of the IHOP:

Timothy: …Multi-tasking bothers some people because they think you’re not paying attention to them, or you’re not telling them what they want to hear. Some people think it’s rude if you’re doing something else at the same time that you’re talking to them, but really it’s just true, that’s the way your brain’s working all the time anyway. 

I remember when I was back in school, trying to pay attention to the teacher and I’d look outside and I’d get fascinated with something going on out there. I could still hear her, but I was carrying on a conversation over here too. And I found that you can only do this so much, but the average person does this more than we are willing to admit.

Younger man: I’ve been on a different path of really trying to be right here with one thing at a time.

Timothy: Sometimes that’s the only way to fix something, is to focus and totally isolate everything else. That’s alright. That’s an engineer way of doing it.

Younger man: It’s BOTH/AND

Timothy: I don’t think anyone is supposed to do one or the other, they’re both important.

Younger man: And here’s something I’ve been learning when I come to the fork in the road. It’s like this: ‘Yes’, to the right. ‘Yes’, to the left, and then—the non-path presents itself.

Timothy: Yes, here’s something you haven’t seen yet.

Younger man: (Laughing) Right. Exactly. The path that you did not see.

Timothy: Sometimes I think I’m going the wrong way when it’s really more in-the-plan than I thought. Other times it’s the opposite; you think you’re going the right way and everything crashes and we interpret that as wrong instead of, ‘this is what I’m supposed to be experiencing.’ And that causes a lot of people to get double-minded…Anyway, how are the kids doing?”



2:04 time indicator

Name changes 4min

“It is the father’s birthright to see his children for who they really are”

31 minutes…”I knew something about him that was troubling.” “Just because you know something doesn’t mean you say something.” Trying to apply righteous. But he ddin’t know how to do it.

37min the blue door
38 min approx, blue door, drunk guy, how did I respond? I sang to him. TIM: that was you at your best.
“I’m sorry I charged you ten bucks to get in.”

I forgot all about the drunk guy. “He disrupted the whole thing but he didn’t disrupt you.” He stood there trying to disrupt everything and you just sang a song to him. And the next thing you know he ended up on the floor. Good spot. This is not a night club any more.

I don’t think I’d ever remembered that if you had not brought it up.

“That was you at your best.” It bothered me that so many people I knew in the city didn’t get to see it.

“That day taught me so much because it was like, ‘this is the church without walls, this is the body of christ moving in presence instead of reputation. I found that the spirit of god was free-er in the club than he was in the sancturary. And I thought about the drunk guy who was trying to get to Jesus. He would get thrown out of almost every church in this city, and you tolerated him. 

“Because I am him, Tim.” Said the disciple 

“Most people that God uses are. They look at things differently because they think, ‘that could be me right there.’

“I am him Tim. Me and him are the same.”

That song that you sang about Jack. I think that song went deep into the spirit…You know the trouble we have with days like that is, you know, we go, ‘where do we go next. Is this just always supposed to be a moment in time. Something wonderful happens and we want to go back to it. Can we ever build on that.

“Can we monetize it?”

41 minutes: tim’s story about Petra. Tim is 15. Larry Norman sends free music to Tim’s friend.  





The middle-aged-man still felt a kind of sadness that he could not go back to a more open time with Timothy, a time when he felt the closeness with him and his family in which he could call any time and Tim would answer, that time when he enjoyed the liberty of just dropping in on them any time. But Tim did not extend that invitation today, and neither had his wife Jolee in their last facebook messenger exchange. The man sat with that reality for a moment. He sat with it. He let it be exactly what it was. Then, he wondered what would happen if he applied the ACIM lesson of the day to this situation:

“My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world.”

For the moment, the middle-aged-man preferred to understand his thoughts this way. What if it was true that his thoughts were meaningless? What if these meaningless thoughts were showing him a meaningless world?

The middle-aged-man questioned himself, “How long will I allow myself to be insecure about the change in my relationship to these people who were once such a huge part of my life? How much room does one need to grieve a loss? Who is it that is grieving the loss? Who is the ‘myself’ that is insecure over this loss? Can I bring Presence to this loss? What does this loss feel like in my body? Where is this loss located? What is it like to bring Presence to this loss? What is that experience like? Can I get curious about that? Can I allow that to happen? Is this what these fragmented parts of my being require? Presence? What is this proces like? Is this the process? Are we in the process now? Just asking a bunch of questions?”

Whose the enemy?
Satan
The Christ says, “Love your enemy”
Love satan?
Is this why the Pharisees and Sadducces thought that Christ had a demon in him?
They couldn’t love their enemy?
Who is our enemy? 
Those whom we perceive to have satan living in them?
The other?

Why all this again? What is the point of this blasphemy? More meaningless thought? Possibly.

The middle-aged man recognized the reverence with which he had treated Timothy. Timothy had, at one time, been the embodiement of the Christ to a younger middle-aged-man. And through some course of miracles, the middle-aged-man was once again, able to recognize the Christ in his friend Tim. The younger man had taken such a resentment against fundamentalism that he’d been unable or unwilling to see Tim’s heart.

So, What’s it like to sit with that man, Timothy, and see his faults? Is that how we want to see this? Faults? Is there another way to ask that question? What’s it like to see Timothy as a man who is still maturing and to see places where Tim may be stuck in his progression? Maybe that’s not even the right way to say this. I’m hesitant to nail this down. What’s it like to love Timothy? I think I’m getting closer now. What’s it like to love that man? What’s it like to come back to him in love and acceptance? What’s it like to accept him as you accept yourself? What’s it like to see him in the context of spiral dynamics? What’s it like to feel him as an equal? What’s it like to know your way around your Self in his presence? Here’s one to try on for size…dare I say it?....What’s it like to have gone deeper than your mentor? Let’s try again. Let’s try it this way…What’s it like to know a bigger Christ than Tim knows? What’s it like to experience the Christ as Universal? What’s it like to have left the bible belt? Am I speaking foolishly now? Can I take these risks? Am I willing to risk trying out these statements? Can this be part of my process? What’s it like to love that man? I want to come back to that one.

Timothy still talks of the “saved” and the “lost”. “I asked him what those words meant to him, didn’t I?” the man questioned himself, although he already knew the answer.

Timothy had the check for the meal in his hand.

“I’ll get the tip,” said the younger man as he laid a twenty dollar bill down on the table.

“That’s not a tip,” said Timothy, batting the bill toward his old-disciple.

“Yes, it is,” said the younger man, “That’s my tip today. I’m sowing some seeds. I know you understand that.”

“Yes, I do,” said Timothy

The younger man noticed that, although his bank account was dwindling with no more money scheduled to come in, that he did not feel so scared as he laid the twenty down on the table. And yesterday, as he passed a ten dollar bill to a homeless-looking couple on the street corner, he felt no fear. He who gives up his life, gains it. He who gives up the money, gains his freedom from it.

“Okay,” said Tim. “I’ve got to get to this dentist appointment.” Several times during their conversation the silver-haired man had applied some anbesol to his gums.

“Yes,” said the middle-aged-man “let’s get you there.”

“Oh, wait!” said the younger man, “Could you please sign this for me?” He slid his new blue bible with the vine-textured cover over to Timothy.

Timothy took a few thoughtful moments to write in the front cover of the middle-aged-man’s new bible which had his name embossed in silver on the front.

“Okay,” said Timothy, “It was great to see you, my friend.

“Oh, no,” said the younger man, “I’m not leaving you yet. I want to get every moment I can with you. I’m so grateful that you took the time to sit down with me today.”

And so they waited in line. Timothy paid the bill.

As they turned toward the double doors, the younger man placed his arm over Timothy’s shoulder and spoke these words: “I’m here to blow you up Tim, because that’s what you’ve prayed for.” The two men laughed. These were words that were spoken with affection and humor. These two men had a history together. Timothy was with the young man when he was kicked out of his first church. Timothy and his family had held the young man as he as his family left the church of the bible belt to discover what was then a complete mystery, the Cosmic Christ. These two men were accepting the death and resurrection process. These two men were accepting the trembling that came with this process of inviting the Word into one’s very being. They were saying “yes” to life. They were saying yes to one another.

As they emerged from the Internation House of Pancakes into the morning light, they laughed and exchanged good-byes. They parted ways.

“Call me when it’s time to play!” The younger man was strumming his air guitar, walking backwards across the parking lot.

The man in the hooded olive jacket got in his little blue Toyota with the extremely cracked windshield. His direction seemed obvious. He was the hunter-gatherer  looking for the next berry. He was the following the herd. He turned his little car South-East down the Northwest Expessway. Then he turned South on Rockwell toward his old place of employment, where he hoped he would find his old friend and boss, Brian.

Inkling Design

The man is heading South on Rockwell. He is nostalgic. He knows these streets, or at least he once knew them. The people that he left behind here have been travelling these streets the whole time that he has been gone. He left this town like Moses left after he killed the Egyptian. Desert exile? Not exile. Refuge? Yes, refuge in the desert.  The man crossed through an intersection. What is the name of that street? It’s not wilshire, is it? Wilshire runs parallel to Rockwell, does it not. It’s the street that you enter the Bence’s neighborhood from. It’s the last main intersection that you cross through before you get to Brian’s shop when you’re coming from this way.

I’m awake. Sitting here in this room facing North. Trying to make sense. Is that what I’m trying to make sense? Maybe that’s a problem? I wanted to write “the” problem, but I felt that was a little too absolute. 

The man scrolled back down to the real time in which he belonged.


Day 13
December 31, 2019
11:37PM

The dying-author awoke just before the dawn of a new decade, a dawn that had already cracked on much of the world to his East--A midnight which had already come to many of his fellow human beings. The dying author acknowledged the new year in this way, crafting these sentences slowly as the minutes passed before him on the small clock in the lower right-hand- corner of his laptop. He celebrated the new year somberly, by himself, but not alone dear reader. He was mostly unafraid of what life was offering in this moment, and he felt grateful for it all.

His father’s house was quiet. The middle-aged man had napped for over three hours after another conversation with Kathy…

 The fireworks, those audible signs of the new year caused him to think of his children, and it seemed just right to send them a group text:

Father: “Happy New Year! Thinking of you as the dawn of a new decade arises upon us, my dear children! I heard the fireworks and thought, “I bet that’s what my kiddos are doing right now!” Peace to you and all our fellow human beings. Peace to this waking world and all its expressions of arising consciousness.”

The middle aged man admitted to himself his own loneliness. He had considered venturing out into the world earlier, but he had not. Instead, he asked Kathy about her synagogue. He had the conversation that his friend Jeremy advised him not to have just before he’d left the college-cow-town those five days ago.

 “So Kathy,” began the middle-aged-man, “you call your assembly place a synagogue? Is that correct? Am I getting that right?”

“Yes,” she said, “I call it a church sometimes so others can understand what I’m talking about.”

“Ahh, I see,” he responded, “And you find your peace there, participating in that form?”

“Yes, I do. Very much so. I have friends there. I enjoy the ceremonies. I feel supported there. I feel loved. I am cared for within those walls.”

“Oh, that sounds lovely, Kathy. I am so happy for you,” he encouraged her to continue.

“Yes, I love my synagogue and the people in it. We recognize the appropriate feasts as indicated in the old testaments. We do Davidic dancing…”

“Davidic dancing?” the man interrupted, “Do you mean that you dance with abandon?”

“Oh no, we don’t believe in that kind of thing, Davidic dancing is a structured group dance with very specific steps,” she explained, “It’s really beautiful. I’d have to show you a video.”

“Yes, I’d like to see that,” he said

She went on, “At our synagogue, we try to avoid the traditions of man by strictly observing the bible as it is written. Things go wrong when man comes in and tries to change things. When we stray from what’s written in the Word, that’s when things go wrong. We do our best to observe the Judaic traditions as they are set out in the Old Testament. The first Christians were Jewish people. If you just stick with the old testament, you can’t go wrong. You know, like Christmas, it’s a Pagan holiday, so we don’t celebrate that.”

“Do you ever find that you are inventing your own traditions despite your efforts to prevent them from coming in? I just ask because that was my experience as I did my best to dedicate myself to the holy scriptures,” he said.

“Oh yes, that’s always a danger. But we just stick to the Word. You can’t go wrong if you just stay with what’s written there.”

And so this interaction between the middle-aged-man and his father’s wife began. They found common ground in their recognition of the name that cannot be spoken, Y-W-H, the breath of God, the unspeakable name. They  also agreed that the annointed one was never called Jesus while he walked the earth, Yeshua being a closer representation of the name of the human-being that was called Messiah over two-thousand years ago. 

The middle-aged-man shared with her about the Universal Christ, the all inclusive One whose arms are wide open, the One who does not exclude anything or any one.

She responded, “I don’t understand this Universal Christ that you are talking about. That doesn’t make much sense to me.”

“That’s okay,” said the man, “I’m not trying to get you to believe anything. It’s okay with me that you don’t understand. My experience has lead me to see the Christ in everything and in every one. There is nowhere I can go to escape the all-encompassing embrace of Christ...”

The middle-aged-man dared to go on. He shared with her how he saw the Christ in his vipassana practice as he observed the breath, and how he saw the Christ in the Buddha. Then, he shared with her how he saw the Christ in his spirit animal, Snake, as he practiced therapeutic shamanism. He shared with her how he saw the Christ in the Hindu Gods and Goddesses.

She continued, “I just know that God said to have no idols before him. Moses went up on the mountain for forty days and the people formed a golden calf, because that’s what we do. We make false idols, and so that’s why I think it’s very important to follow the Word.”

“I think I understand what you are saying. There was a time in my twenties when I tried to live my life as I interpreted the scriptures literally,” He said.

“Well, what do you think of the bible? How do you see the scriptures? What do you believe?” she said.

The middle aged man paused. He began to explain. He stopped. He paused again, realizing how important this one was, for himself, that he be clear of any need to prove anything to Kathy. He was walking a fine line in this conversation. He tried to share only his experience, his strength, his hope. He did not want her to feel threatened or attacked.

“I can’t speak about what I believe, because belief never really helped me as much as I wanted it to,” he continued at last, “I can only speak about my experience. I once read the scriptures literally, and that lead to a type of madness, a death that came naturally as a result of that whole process.” 

The man backed up. He tried again. 

“Let me see if I can say this another way. Really, I just want to be held, Kathy. I never felt that I was held the way I needed to be. And my father was never held like he needed. And his father before him. And this is how I came into the church. I wanted to be held and I was told that I would be held by a literal interpretation of the bible. And I truly was held in that tradition, in that form, for a while. But, eventually, my literal understanding of the holy scriptures was not enough to hold me. When we sold all of our possessions, I gave myself to that form completely, but in the end, I didn’t feel held, so I felt that I had to move on. 
I moved on in my search. I moved on to find the next form, or practice, that would hold me. And this way of being fits me, maybe because I am one of those people that you might call an artist. It’s about the creative process for me. And that’s why it’s so important that I can see the Christ in the Buddha, or Snake, or the Hindu Gods and Goddesses. I never know where I’m going to see the Christ, and I can’t control where this provision of grace through the Cosmic Christ will come from. I know that these ideas may be disturbing to you, and I don’t mean to offend you at all, but I’m even going to take this a step further. You may need to cast me out, and if you do, I understand, but I’m going to speak some blasphemy right now, just to make a point. Here goes: Who is the enemy? Satan. What does Christ tell us to do for our enemies? Love them. So who do we love? We love Satan.”

The man stopped speaking. There was a long pause.

Finally Kathy speaks. “I just know that Jesus did a lot of casting out of demons. There is an enemy and I don’t think that we can love Satan. We have to fight Satan…”

“Okay,” said the man, “But what does the fight of a follower of Christ look like? Isn’t our only weapon love? How do we fight these evil principles and principalities? Do we literally put on God’s armour? And if so, what does that armour look like?”

“You can’t love Satan, that’s all I know.” She said.

“That very well may be so,” he said, “And fortunately I’m not trying to convince you of anything tonight. I’m just sharing my experience with you. I’m just using these words so that maybe we can both see something greater than ourselves. I’m being open and honest with you about my experience. I pray tonight, as I have been praying, that anything false in me will be burned up. Anything not genuine. Anything not authentic. I pray that these things will be burned up in me. And I thank you for your prayers of healing. I welcome them. I have suffered deeply, Kathy, and this is just who I find my Self to be today. I am aware of my need to be held by this all-inclusive, all-encompassing, Creative, Intelligent, and fully-Compassionate Universal Christ. Today I feel that I am in communion with this Christ. This is my experience. I hope that you can feel my respect for your experience today. I don’t need you to be anything different than what you are right now. I don’t need you to be anywhere different than where you are right now. Thank you for allowing me to stay in your home.

“I think I understand, Maybe we can just watch Edward Scissor-hands,” she suggested.

The man sat to watch…

Edward Scissor-hands. The young man who lied at the end of the cul-de-sac who was isolated from his community. The Avon lady came calling. She brought him home. The religious lady was afraid of him. He cut himself. He poked a hole in the water bed. He had trouble dressing and acting right. Everyone seemed curious at best--suspicious at worst.

But the middle-aged-man grew sleepy. He excused himself to his bedroom to nap, truly hoping that he would get to finish the movie another day. And this is the story of how the middle-aged-man woke up just twenty-three minutes before midnight and began writing as the decade passed before his eyes.

Day 14
3:12 AM

The writer gave his body a chance to sleep. He awoke from what he estimated to be a ten minute dream.

I am standing in a physical therapy gym. There is an older man in the parallel bars. He beckons me over. He is an older Asian man. He asks me a question. What is he saying? I am leaning in. I can’t understand him now, but I understood him when I was dreaming. He is telling me that he is unable or unwilling to do something that he said he would? Is that what it is? I stop him mid-sentence. I do not want to hear any more. I get the point. I understand. You have told me enough. I want you to stop talking. I am annoyed. No More explanation in necessary, old man. I don’t want to hear it any more. Why is your hand on my left thigh. I want you to remove your hand from my thigh. Then the question returns. The Question. There’s a deeper question. What is it? What are you asking me, old man? Something to do with physical therapy?  Why can’t I remember the question? I am listening.  Am i listening? I cannot hear the question now. I knew what it was then. I heard it. The man collapses. He goes to his knees outside the parallel bars. I look up at the crowd of my coworkers, there are many. Someone call 911! Everyones’ phones are out they are all calling at once. 911 will be flooded with calls. The cell phones make the faces of my coworkers glow. Everyone is dialing. “The patient is still breathing,” I announce. 

I awake in fear that I will have no insurance. I wake in fear of my rotting teeth. Tim’s toothache. I have no structure. Joseph’s words are in my ears, “how will you care for yourself?” Who will care for me? I am the overly-bearded man who shows up at Brian’s shop, my job is fading from me. What if I don’t return on the sixth for my Dr appointment. I have an appointment with Renita borders, my new therapist in a couple of days too. Do I go home now? Do I run home? Can I continue facing my father. My mother is calling, offering chowder and a “safer” place to be. My father’s house is a sad house where the televisions run constantly. I am very tired now. Depleted. Exhausted. My body is getting tired from never sleeping more than three hours at a time. I want to go home. Where is home? Father, what time is it? Mother invited me over for clam chowder tomorrow night. I want to see my mother before I go home. I am scared. I am lonely. I do not like the way the television sounds in this house. I do not like the isolation and sadness here. I am afraid that my father will be mad in the morning because I did not spend enough time with him yesterday. This is the home where people shut themselves in rooms and turn the television on all evening. This is the place they rarely leave. I want to go home. Where is home? Who will take care of me?

The writer sat on the light-tan leather couch in his father’s spare bedroom. He was facing North, toward the concentric circles at the head of the bed where he had just dreamed of the Asian man. The dying Asian man.? The Asian man who had a heart attack in the parallel bars. Was he from the East? The innocent sage? Of Bill Plotkin. The Trickster? The fool?

The writer scolled back to his writings from the day before. He wanted to tell the story of Brian and Nash and Inkling design.

The man sat on the light tan couch at 3:52AM. He faced North. He observed a breath. And another one. The Y-W-H. the observance of the I AM. He wondered if he was sinking too far into the soil, like he had done on Christmas day, one week ago. The one week anniversary of the Christmas day that the man was convinced of his death by the “lethal dose” of psilocybin mushrooms. 

The man had a story to tell. At least that’s what he thought he might be doing here. Or maybe he was just writing to save himself. Maybe he was writing so that he could be saved. That’s one question that he’d asked Tim yesterday.

“These words, ‘saved’ and ‘lost,’ what do they mean to you now after all these years?

The writer himself certainly felt saved these days. “Saved from what?” he mused of his own being. Was that honest? That last sentence. Was that an honest use of the word “muse.” It was moments like these when he remembered that writing had very little to do with writing and everything to do with that question that was famous within the realms of his own being, “How will I live with myself.”

The next question is sometimes this, “who is this self that you are trying to live with?”

Harbor Dave told the aspiring writer that he had written thousands of pages (or was it just a thousand that he’d estimated. I think it was just a thousand) that would never be published. The writer now realized that he had also written many pages that would never be published. 

“Do I have the courage to continue in this writing project even if it were to never be published?” he asked himself. Do I have the courage to call all these thought meaningless. Let’s try it for just a minute, just as ACIM has recommended on day 10. And day 11 which states, “My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world.” Ha! The greatest insult to a storyteller, right?

This made him think of his friend, Janice, back in Portales. The woman who he had once called muru (mutual guru). The woman who he’d cut out of his life after he read three-quarters of a book about codependencey. He stopped reading the book after he’d blocked his brother, his father, and three friends, including Janice, who he had been scheduled to meet with that morning.

He floundered now in this writing project, although he’d just completed writing a couple of significant chunks. His cell phone sounded a text. He leaned over to see who was contacting him at 4AM in the morning (that’s what his ex-wife used to say when she used the AM. He felt that it was redundant in nature to say AM and ‘in the morning.’ AM was sufficient. It bothered him that she did this over and over again. He felt that being an English teacher that she must be held accountable for these types of infractions). His cell phone signaled yet another text. That was three. This time, he really did reach over the couch to pick up the cell phone, which was plugged into the wall charging. There he goes. He’s about the reach.

It was his brother. The man was tired. His head felt foggy. He didn’t not know if he was ready to engage his brother right now. The man missed the showers at the adobe house on Avenue Q. The man wondered if he was sinking in to the soil. He wondered if he was too far gone to come back. “What is required of me to complete this process,” He wondered. “How far do I have (get) to go.” He wondered again. 

It was writing like this that connected him to something deeper than this writing project that he really did hope to get published. Oh, the impossibilty of that. Or rather, that felt like the impossible. How long had it been since the man had written of the miracles? The form was always passing through for the man. Transient form. Constantly changing. Ah, to be one of those people who finds a form and rests in it. This was not how the man experienced life. Even as he wrote, his form and voice were changing. They had to change in order for him to experience (there’s that word again) his own honesty. 

“Am I really ready to die this death?” he asked himself. (he wrote the phrase “he wondered to himself” but he sensed that he’d already used that phrase several times recently). Writing was a constant effort to not say the same thing, the same way, twice, especially in the same sentence or the same paragraph. And then, if he noticed that a word was used frequently (i.e. experience) then it must somehow be acknowledged. He wondered what he would find if he looked up the word “experience” in a thesaurus. 

What about Stan and David in Cloudcroft? Was that a place he needed to be? Was there something there for him? Was there some “experience” that he needed in Cloudcroft? Why was that word experience so important. “Experience is important because it is through experience that we experience the change that we so deeply need,” first person writer answered third-person writer. “You just used the word “experience” twice in that one first-person sentence…no…actually three times.” The writer’s head was spinning. He opened google to find a thesaurus.

The writer needed to feel the warmth of a shower. He wanted to feel the warmth of the shower. He did, as the writer’s father slept just a few feet away, he showered. It was a mainly uneventful shower, mostly just the cleaning of his body. He did, however, sit down for a bit and feel the warm water as he allowed himself to come into contact with this breath and his body (btw, “contact” was one of the synonyms for “experience” in the thesaurus). As he dried off he remembered one of the teachings of his Pema, which was “Go to the places that scare you.” Was that not the teaching of the Christ when he asked the rich young man to sell all of his possessions and give to the poor? Was the Christ not asking the rich young man to “go to the places that scared” him? 

“Oh,” thought the writer, “a shower in close proximity to my father. I think that qualifies as one of those places. Could it be possible after all these years that when you are around your father you are still a scared child?”

The writer suddenly wanted to run back to the comfort of the medicine. “The comfort of the medicine!?” he thought loudly. “Are you serious? The medicine that made you feel like you were going to die?” Now the writer was answering himself in second person. They say that’s a sign of true insanity. “Who is ‘they’?” the writer questioned.

“Pema?” the writer asked….

Let’s try that again…

“Pema?” the son asked

“Yes, son?” said the Pema

“How long do I stay in these places that scare me?”

“Pema?”

“Yes, Son?”

“What time is it?”

“Do you remember when you went to the mountains?” asked his Pema.

“Which time?” the son asked (knowing exactly which time she was referring to).

“That time that you went all by yourself, son. That time that you drove all the way up to the Santa Fe National forest by yourself. Your son wasn’t with you and that was a pretty big deal, and you knew the deal would get even bigger in your heart once you got there. And do you remember how, on the trail register, someone had written, ‘watch for cougars! Stay with your party!’. And you were all alone, weren’t you, son?”

“Yes, Pema, I was,” Said the son.

“And how did that make you feel,” asked his Pema.

“I felt scared, my Pema,” confessed the son.

“And what did you do?” she asked.

“I signed the trail register and I started my backpack adventure.”

“Yes, that is how I remember it too,” she said.

“And what happened next, son,” Pema asked.

The son responded, “I hiked and hiked all day long. I was all by myself and the sun was shining down on me in the forest as I hiked through the changing landscape. I hiked through tall grasses. I hiked past all different kinds of wild flowers and dandelions. I hiked through open flat fields, and rocky ascents. I hiked past large rocks. I hiked past uprooted trees. I hiked past tall, sticky pines. I saw a horny toad. I rested, eating packets of tuna. I hiked through green ferns and aspens. And the whole time I wondered about feared I was being hunted by a cat. Well, not the whole time, I finally got too tired to care much about the cougar that might be stocking me. But, she was there with me the whole time. And I got so tired. I got tired and a lot of emotions came up and I started crying and hiking at the same time. Then my tears turned into prayers. And I came to that place where I didn’t want to go any further, and I wondered why in the heck I’d come in the first place, but by then I had gone too far to turn back…”

“Right there,” said Pema, “That’s exactly how far you have to go. You get to go so far out that you can’t come back. That’s what they call ‘past the point of no return.’ That’s the place that scares you. And that’s the only place where you can make friends with your fear. It’s right there, you’re all alone with it, so you have no choice but to work with yourself. That’s the place where your practice is born. So, are you there yet?”

“I don’t know, Pema. Am I there yet?” the son felt like he was in the back seat of Pema’s car crying, “Are we there yet, Pema?”

“Just keep talking about what happened next, son.”

“Thank you,” said the son.

“What are you thanking me for?” said his Pema.

“For calling me son?” said the son.

“You are very welcome. That’s what you are, isn’t it? A son?”

“Yeah, I know,” said the son, “but I know that you are a non-theist and the ‘son’ thing, well that’s kind of my thing and not yours.”

“I am the Universal Pema,” she said, straightening her yellow Pema robes, “I AM all forms, and I am no forms. Now get on with your story, because you’ve got a point to make here.”

“Yes, Pema, I will.” Said the Universal Son. “I had ascended past the point of no return, up past ten-thousand feet now. I was all by myself. I hadn’t seen another hiker all day. I cried as I walked with the pack on my back. I cried for my own loneliness. I missed my son. Hre was my trail partner. We’d been together on every trip to the mountains. We helped each other get our packs on and off and talked to one another and watched out for one another, and he wasn’t there. And that loneliness pressed in on me.

And all day I had wondered about the large cat that might be sneaking up behind me. And sometimes I stopped and I listened very carefully, and I turned around to look behind me, scanning the trees and underbrush for any movement or color difference. And the more tired I got, the more intense the sense of loneliness and loss became. It was grief, that’s what I was feeling so intensely. Grief: when your happiest memories become your most painful ones; that’s how I had come to define it for myself, and miss Du’bois, at work, when I explained it to her that way, she told me that I should write a book. So there I was, dealing with my loss. Iwas past the point of no return and the grief was mounting up. And I kept turning around to see if there was a big cat behind me, knowing that any big cat worth their salt would never give away its position to a lumbering human with a forty pound pack on his back. I knew I would never see her coming. And I didn’t have a knife, but I did have my dragon-tooth necklace, and when that moment came I planned to gouge her in the eyes with my dragon tooth necklace. I don’t know what that was about because I did have a knife in my pack, yet still I planned to gouge the attacking cougar with my dragon-tooth necklace that the mountain climber from the Life Healing Center had made just for me. 

My tears, at some point turned into prayers. I prayed for my ex-wife and I prayed for the woman from Bermuda who I had put on a plane—the woman who I had left my ex-wife for. That thing I had done that I was still coming to terms with. This was before I knew that Sapphos had returned to Lesbos island. Anyway, I prayed for these women long and hard. I asked God that these women would be given the strength to recover from the harm that I had done to them. I especially remember praying for the woman from Bermuda who I wanted so deeply, the woman that I tried so hard to give myself away to, but something inside of me would just not allow it, no matter how hard I tried. It was for her that I remember praying for the most fervently. Up and up I went that day.

I came with the intent that night of meeting Kali Ma on the mountain. She is a Hindu Goddes with blue skin and at least four arms who cuts mens head off with a scythe. I was praying for the death of my false self. The head represented the ego to me. And it was with the specific intention of making love to Kali Ma in this way that I had come to the mountain.

After nine hours of physical and emotional exertion, I arrived at lake Johnson at over eleven-thousand feet elevation. I made my camp. The making of that camp was one of the loneliest and saddest things I had ever done. There were no other campers up there. My son was not with me. I was well past the point of no return. I was in up to my neck, the neck that I prayed Kali Ma would sever that night. I pitched the tent. I prepared wood for the fire. I cooked some shrimp flavored Ramen. I rolled out my sleeping bag. I got everything organized for the night. Having completed all the camp chores, I was ready to go meet her.

 
I knew where I was going. My son and I had been to this very lake just two weeks before. I followed the stream up into the forest, past where anyone might find me if something were to go wrong. There was a lush, green, ground covering up there. There were these giganitic boulders too, with mysterious bodies of water around them. A couple of these boulders were gigantic, fifteen or twenty feet high. 

These boulders had spirits in them. I could feel that. And the green ground covering too. And the stream. It was all alive. It was all breathing. And there was the spirit of the cougar there with me the whole time, the one who stalks me. She was there. She was always there. There was one place where when I stepped, the ground sounded hollow. I had on my black combat boots, the same pair that I would leave behind at the ENMU brick wall when I took my hitchike months later. Anyway, these black combat boots, when I stomped the ground made this incredibly strange thunking sound in the earth. I began stomping and dancing. I began calling on the spirit of Kali Ma. “Kali Ma! Kali Ma! Kali Ma! I yelled out time and time again. Her name rang through the valley. And when I stopped calling her name the quiet was just as loud. And I thought that she would surely come in the form of a the mother cat. 

And it was in this way that I summoned the spirit of Kali Ma, saying yes to the death that I knew I must die. And it was there also that I cried out the name of the others that had helped me. I called on the name of Yeshua. I called on the Buddha. I called on Shiva and Shakti, the male and the female God and Goddess. It was in this way that I made myself vulnerable that night on the mountain. It was in this way that I made myself vulnerable in both spirit and in my physical being. 

I found my way back to the quiet camp as the sun was setting. It was dusk and getting duskier. I lit the great stack of firewood that I had made from large branches and the trunk of a tree. The fire was nestled where two large rocks met. It was sheltered from the wind. And I saw that there was a curious animal hole right there by my camp. It was a tunnel that went into the earth. Yes. I was very interested in that hole. 

I drank water. I ate more food. The sky became blue above the trees in the valley. The fire roared. I fell sound asleep. When I woke up the fire was out. That’s when I heard the mysterious clicking sound that I spoke of earlier—the strange clicking from which would eventually arise the Exquisite Stillness.

“Pema?” said the son, “Are you there?”

“Ask him to take you to see the cats,” said Pema.

“The cats?” said the son (knowing exactly the cats that she was talking about)

(So there must be a Louie’s scene now in which the cats are mentioned?)

“Yes, son. The cats that were so important to him that he told you about during the meal a Louie’s. Ask him if he’ll take you to see those cats. See what happens. Go to the places that scare you. You’ve got to go past the point of no return.”


Day 14
6:28AM

The son questioned his Pema. It seemed very unlike her to ask him to buy into a story. Was that what she was doing, trying to get him to believe in his own story?

This Universal Pema was somewhat different than the Pema he knew. “The only Pema you know is the one from her books and the one you’ve seen on a couple of youtube videos,” said the son to the one who was called Narrator. 

The son’s feet were going numb. The tile floor in his father’s house was very cold. He went to put on his shoes.

The father was making beef jerky. A sweet and tangy smell emanated from the rectangular pyrex where the thin strips of meat had brought in the new year last night. 

“Hey, that was some good pie you made,” said the son to his father. The father returned the son’s comment with a silence that was uncomfortably familiar to the son. Minutes pass as the father shuffles around the kitchen. He removes the jerky from the marinade.

The father spoke, “Do you watch the Rockin’ new years on TV or anything like that? You know Times square? There are like, millions of people who come. They corral these people in the gates and once you are in you can’t leave. Yeah. That’ right. They check you for bombs and guns and they let you into the corral and you can’t come out until the new year. And you know, most of those people wear adult diapers.” 

“Is that right? They have to wear adult diapers in those corrals, huh?” said the son.

“Ol’ Trump…You know, he wants to pull out from Afghanistan, but some people don’t want to because they are making too much money over there so he’s got some resistance.”

The father placed paper towels over the raw meat, absorbing the excess moisture.

“Making jerky is good for the paper towel business,” he said.

The father placed a strip of foil over a shallow cake pan. He placed a baking rack over the foil. He then laid the thin strips of seasoned meat over the baking rack. He placed the meat in the oven on one-seventy-five.

“You want a rice bowl this mornin’?” He asked the son.

“Sure.” Said the son who was standing at the kitchen counter, fingers curled over home row, watching his father cut purple onions and red peppers. The father retrieved several snap peas from a large ziploc bag, slicing them also. He reached into a drawer below the island for a deep skillet. He oiled the skillet and turned the stove on medium heat.

As the father prepared a rice bowl for his son he embarked on an emotional recounting of his newest recovered traumatic memories from childhood. The father spoke of his trauma until his own trauma story merged with the story of his son. The father and son stood there together as their trauma began to merge once again. The son stood there with the father who was determined to blame his son for his own misery.

Day 14
9:58AM

Dear reader, the writer comes to you for company this morning. Dear Pema, thank you for you support this morning. Dear Mother, Dear Father, the son acknowledges the blessing that you are in his life.

A miracle came to pass in the life of the middle-aged-man, one that may be somewhat difficult to articulate so early in its development. 

The writer had learned in the last two weeks that it was often the less direct approach to the miracle which brought the deepest results. And so this is the way he began that morning in a South facing position at his Mother’s house. Yes, dear reader, in the course of this morning the son quietly packed his belongings and moved himself back into his mother’s home.

The first time that the son remembered his father blaming him for his misery was when he was five. It made a lasting impression on the little boy. His mother helped him to understand that his Daddy was sad because of something that he did. 

What does it do in the heart of a child when the father is unable to give himself the approval that he needs? What does it do in the heart of a maturing young adult when the father, once again, blames his son for his own suffering? What does it do?

What does it do to a son to be attacked by the father? The son knew. He was experiencing the results this very moment. He knelt in one of his mother’s two extra bedrooms as he was typing. It was the Northern-most bedroom.  He knelt to the West, the beloved-muse, the shadow realm.

He knelt with fear in his heart that he would be overwhelmed by the memory of his father this morning as he had, once again, attempted to withdraw his blessing from the child (child? Is that what the writer just wrote? Yes. That is what just came out). The writer clung to this form, recording the passing of this moment. He faced the west in a half-water-droplet position. He retrieved two pillows from the surface of the bed above him. He propped his chest, rested his elbows on the ground, and resumed typing from this position. Every word was his life line. Every word was the life raft of form that held him out of the turbulent waters. His feet tingled now as the blood began to flow back in to them. 

Images of his suffering father’s face filled his mind as he woke up from the very short nap which allowed him now to resume his writing. Each word that came from his fingers a blessing. Each word transporting him through this moment, a tactile prayer for his finger tips. He breathed in deeply and typed the next words as he allowed the oxygen to escape his lungs. The writer waited for the next miracle. He had already seen miracles happening today. He watched his father attack. He watched himself as he did not return the attack. He watched himself pray for his father. He watched himself give thanks to his father as he left his home. The writer allowed some saliva to drip from his mouth as a distraction, just another tactile experience that carried him one moment further into the present. 

“Am I of a right mind?” the writer questioned himself (the writer? Yes that is what he called himself. He clung to this form for life). He waited for a moment so that he could find himself in the simplicity of being. Exhaustion. Sadness. He watched his father’s eyes fill with desperation and anger. He watched him as he recounted a whole new layer of pain within himself. These were stories that the son had not yet heard. The father recounted how his elder brother of six years consistently reminded him that he was an accident. My father was the one who was not supposed to come. He was the one who was not held. His parents had no energy for him. His brother relished shooting his cats with a shotgun when they became ill. The father still carried all this loss within him. The little boy (his father) left for overnight trips, sleeping under railroad bridges, his parents not knowing that he was gone and never knowing of his absence. These were the new stories of his childhood that he was now telling. Why doesn’t the father reach out for help? Why doesn’t he go and talk to a counselor? The father recounted his pain to his son as he stood in the kitchen. This was after the jerky had been put in the oven. This was after the father made the son a rice bowl. The father had been disappointed by the son yesterday because the son did not give him the attention that he desired. The father was lashing out at his son now. The father told his son that he was disappointed in him because he was on medical leave and he was not providing for his family. The father, in a mocking tone, hoped the son made his money as a writer soon so that he could fulfill his responsibilities. These fresh memories. What was the son to do with them now? These fresh woundings from the father who still insisted on blaming his son for making his life miserable. If the son would have shared the grandchildren more, then he would not be this way, everything would have been better. If his son would have been a better son, the father would be happier. If the son was a better son then he would not suffer.

Each keystroke now, he allowed the sensory experience. The man did not know where this was going. He was being stripped down by this attack from his father. What did the son do during this attack. His heart beat fast. He could feel it in his chest. He could feel those fearful parts of his being. He witnessed the father becoming a hurt child again. He witnessed this transformation. The typing human. The human on the floor. The one waiting for a miracle. 

This human held his form as best as he could during the father’s breakdown. The son bore witness to the man’s suffering. At one point he remembered the Christ and the suffering and sickness that he became on the cross. He felt as if he was taking on the suffering of his father, just in witnessing it. He felt now that he had taken it on. “Is this the process?” he wondered. Would he be able to return? He got up to retrieve his guitar. He was reminded with a vision of how he had walked himself out of darkness one week ago on Christmas day. His music was a strong form. He allowed God’s strength to take him to his guitar, which was still out in his car, parked in the street in front of his mother’s house.

The son handled himself well in the time during and directly following the attack. He breathed as he watched his father’s pain sending him into attack mode. He prayed for their awakening. When the son had heard all he could stand, he politely dismissed himself from his seat at the kitchen bar. Why was the son surprised that this was happening? The son watched the situation unfold with a calmness while his heart beat strongly and fast in his chest. After the son dismissed himself from the table, he made his way back to the room where he began packing. He packed calmly and quietly. After he packed he went out the sliding glass door to the back porch. He found a seat in a metal rocking chair. It was there that he began to pray for his father. It was there that he said, “Father forgive him because he does not know what he’s doing.” The words are a burden now as the son stands in front of the screen trying to recall what happened just hours ago. 

The mirror that the son now stands in front of can only reflect the bottom half of his face. His beard, the mustache hanging well below the upper lip.

The man, having retrieved his guitar made his way out to the backyard to the porch where he began the song that had been his life raft just one week ago as he was bringing himself back from the great folding from which he felt he may never return. That christmas day when he truly felt that he might die. 

The son back at his father’s house now had sat on the back porch and prayed for his father, the prayer of the cross. “Father, forgive him because he doesn’t know what he’s doing.” This pain will pass. It is fresh. You know that it passes. 

As the son watched his father he understood the Christ for a moment taking on all the sin and sickness of the world. Just witnessing his father’s pain was anguish for the son, because it was connected to his own pain. The son watched as the father traced the lineage of his pain from deep in his childhood all the way up to the point in his timeline when the father’s pain began to intersect with his son’s. The son watched his father’s eyes intently, wondering if there would be a recognition of what was happening. The father was reliving his own pain in front of his son. His eyes were tearful and desperate, the desperate eyes of a sixty-seven year old man who had never been held, or if he had, it was too short a time and with not enough heart. The son watched the story of the father’s suffering unfold in stories that he’d never heard before, as if a new layer of pain had been unearthed within the father’s psyche. The son wondered what would happen when their pain became one. What would happen.

 The father spoke of the physical abuse that was heaped upon him. The father was ill. He was mocking his neighbors, there was a mocking tone in the voice that the son knew. The son began to speak of his own pain. He spoke of how he had once abused the animals, how he had shaken a little dog until it shit. It was at this moment that the father showed horror in his eyes toward the son, as if he’d seen a monster. The father recoiled from the son in disgust and the words “How could you? How can you live with yourself? Those words were of a wounding self-righteous attitude as the father spoke them to his son. And at that moment their pain merged and the son’s heart was now hurting. But the son held form. He held. He did not attack. The father was horrified by the son’s confession at having shaken the dog, maybe because he loved his little dog so much. It was his own self-righteousness, that which justified a suffering soul. Although the son knew that there was a dog that the father beat with a newspaper when he was young, yet there is still this self-righteousness. And the father can not see that the son was just showing that the curse of the generations had apprehended him too. But the father judges in this moment. And the father recoils, which causes a recoil in the son. And then the father asks the son, “Did I ever shake you?” and there is something in the father’s voice that is justifying himself. And if the son answers something will be made right. But the son is unwilling to say anything. The son is speechless, unwilling to talk. The father is blaming the son and the son has just listened to his pain. That is all that he has done. And now it is the father in his own self-righteousness who is deflecting all responsibility and he wants to pressure the son in to absolving him. And the son wants his father to be absolved, that’s why he came? Is that why he came? He came to make peace with the old man. And then the son explains to the father why he is hurt, because he feels that he has been judged by his past acts of the dog. 

The son, who is now typing just wants this to all be over. He took his guitar outside and gave himself away to the sun and the birds and the wind in the trees

And then the man moved himself outside with Lina the mandolin, the gift from the universe. The man sat on the grass playing in the sunshine. The floaters danced in front of his closed eyes, jumping in the orange background of warmth. He  felt the other-worldliness of the music. And then he saw a miracle. There were two boys who were watching him from the street. He continued playing with increased enthusiasm knowing that they were watching him. He played and sang with his mandolin. The boys remained for well over a minute. The man arose with this gift from the Universe strapped over his shoulder. He played as he approached the two twelve year old boys. They had matching scooters. 

“Are you Marl’s son,” said the bigger of the two boys. 

“No,” I’m Lorri’s son,” said the man.” And with that the man knew that recovery from this pain was possible. He would see the light again. “What’s your name?” said the man. 

“Sebastian,” said the larger of the two. 

“And what’s your name?” the middle-aged-man said to the other. 

“Jackson,” the thin-framed boy said. 

“how long have you two been friends?” said the man? “About a decade,” said sebastian, 

“We’ve known each other since pre-school.” 

“Are these scooters Christmas gifts?” asked the man.

“Yeah,” they said in unison.

“And do they have motors on them?” asked the man.

“mm hmm, yeah!” they said.

“Can they even go uphill?” asked the man?

“Oh yeah,” said sebastian.

They both gunned their throttles and headed up the hill, where Jackson turned up an even steeper embankment, in a powerful display of the scooters abilities.”

“Wow!” said the man, “That is so cool! How long does the battery last?”

“Eleven miles,” said Jackson.

“I think it’s eighteen,” Sebastian said proudly.

“Well do you ride these things to school,” the man asked.

“No, My school’s on a highway, so that wouldn’t be so good,” said Sebastian.
 
The man never stopped playing his mandolin. He just kept picking away. Any non-song would do. He continued acknowledging the miracle in the restorative energy that he felt in these two boys. He would stay with them in this moment as long as they were willing to hold it with him. This moment was part of his most recent salvation.

“aaahhh, I’m so sorry. I’m real bad at names the man said. Can you please tell me your names again. They did, and the man was glad.

“Well Sebastian, where do you live?” said the man.

“I live right there,” he pointed to the grey house next door to his mothers’. 

“And how ‘bout you?” he asked of Jackson.

“I live in Quail creek.”

“Doesn’t that sun feel nice today?” Proclaimed the man.

“yeah,” chorused the two boys in white T shirts.

“You’re wearing shorts today, Sebastian. You must be warm blooded.” Smiled the man.

“Yeah,” he said, “I get hot real easy.”

The man continued to play the mandolin for the sunshine and the wind and the two boys who had brought him his salvation at 2:30 PM on that New Years day as the man was, once again in recovery.

Despite his efforts to accept the situation immediately for what it was, the words of his father were causing great discomfort in the man. He had the opportunity to work with those fearful and fragmented parts of his being. 

He turned to page one of the ACIM text. He scanned for one of the fifty principles that felt in to what he had just experienced.

There it was: “Miracles are healing because they supply a lack: they are performed by those who temporarily have more for those who temporarily have less.”

Those two boys had supplied a miracle for him in becoming his audience on that first day of January 2020.



Day 15
5:59AM

The man slept. He came home from a meeting with an old friend at IHOP and he slept. He slept for seven hours that night, the longest that he’d slept in over two weeks.

“Past the point of no return,” were the words that were in his stomach, the words so tangible that they pushed out a bowel movement that morning.

And he wanted to see the cats that he and his father didn’t get to see together. The feral cat colony on lake Hefner. He wondered if they were still there, the cats that lived in the rocks on the bank of lake Hefner that his father told he and his children about at Louie’s.

The night before he sat at IHOP with his old friend, a friend who had listened to him very closely when he was younger, a friend who had followed him and his wife down to southern Oklahoma when they’d moved down there to farm and ranch for her father-in-law.

Past the point of no return 

Those were the words that were with him this morning

At IHOP with his old friend, the one who had followed him to southern Oklahoma, the one who had followed he and his wife. The man who had followed. The man who had rearranged his life, and convinced his own wife to follow them to southern Oklahoma. This is the one who the middle-aged-man sat with now at IHOP.

This man who he sat with now had once allowed the feminine in himself to come to the surface. When he was younger, he dressed like a woman and allowed the feminine to exist in his being, he had lingered with the tree Goddess, one might say. This is one thing that the middle-aged man knew about his friend.

Renita Borders…the man had an appointment with his new therapist today in New Mexico. There was a very significant part of him that wanted to go back to New Mexico and see this woman who listened to him. But today, as he woke up with these solid words that pushed out a bowel movement, he had come to feel quite certain that he needed to call and cancel that appointment with her, the beatiful dark skinned woman with the thick braided hair who listened to him speak his heart and mind. The man loved a good woman therapist who listened. The man loved a woman who listened. And this was exactly what his friend was doing for him as they sat at IHOP.

His friend had always listened very intently to the middle-aged-man. The middle-aged-man enjoyed being heard by men and women alike. At IHOP last night, he’d allowed something to express its Self from within him. As he spoke to his friend the Christ arose. He told his friend about the snake in the garden, the spiral dynamics, how Christ and his band of followers had made love to the earth, Yeshua’s conversation with Petra., the kundalini unwinding from the  root and rising through the Chakras to light that crown above the head. He spoke of the tree Goddess that had emerged from within and the men who worked just through the trees as he quivered to orgasm in her form. He told him the story of the day in which he had continued thanking his father, even from his knees as the father towered over him, as the father attempted to revoke the blessing that can’t be revoked, as the father tried to humiliate his son,.

“Did you take my cell phone?” the father raged, “Is my cell phone in your pocket? Kathy! Get in here and help me find my cell phone before he leaves!” he yelled.

The son checked his pockets,“I don’t have your cell phone, Dad.”

“Do you know how you and your brother have disappointed me? Do you know what it’s like to have two sons who haven’t figured it out yet? You two are the reason for my misery.”

The son listened and continued to thank his father.

“I thank you for all the gifts that you have given me,” he said repeatedly

The son prayed for his father as he gathered his belongings. The son prayed for his father as his father spewed curses upon him.

“You say that sometimes you’re afraid of me?” said the father, “Well, I’m afraid of you too. How’s that? How do you like that. Yeah, I’m afraid that when you come over here your’e gonna murder me and Kathy. That’s right. How do you like that? I’m afraid of you.” Said the raging father.

“I love you, Dad, I’m grateful for all that you have ever given me.”

“Do you know how disappointing it is to have a son who can’t take care of his family? I hope this writing thing works out for you. I hope you start making some money real quick, because that’s what you need, isn’t it? You’re gonna need money, aren’t you? If you’re gonna support that family of yours, if you’re gonna give your wife the child support and support those kids in college. You’re gonna need money, right? I hope you start making some money real quick. Do you know how disappointing it is, having a son who goes on medical leave and can’t support his family?” 

The father was doing his best.

“And also,” said the father, “Thanks so much for spending so much time with me yesterday.”

The son had, in fact, not spent very much time with his father yesterday. He visited friends. He was sleepy when he came home to his father’s house. His father wanted him to watch “The Nutty Professor” with him, but as the son sat down in the living room, his eyes were closing, his body asking for quiet sleep. The son did not have the heart to watch Jerry Lewis  be a nutty professor. The son excused himself to his father’s back room where he napped.

The son prayed silently as he gathered his things from the bedroom that his father had prepared for him with a comfortable inflatable mattress, the bedroom where the wooden lap desk sat on the leather couch, the lap desk that his father let him use while he was there. The son gave thanks in his heart as the father raged with accusation. The son gave thanks to his father. The son gave thanks for his father. The son did not defend himself. The son did not attack. The son said one thing to the father.

“You are the father who continues to blame his children for his own misery.”

And then the son continued to calmly pack his things, including the weighted blanket that his daughter had given him as a Christmas gift just five days, including the leather bound journal that his youngest daughter had given him, including the uniquely shaped and stained piece of wood that his son gave him, his son who was also concerned about how his father would make his way without someone to care for him as his ex-wife had.

Kathy helped her suffering husband find his cell phone. The middle-aged-man gave his best smile to Kathy and hugged her goodbye.

“Thank you for your hospitality,” he said to her before he turned to pick up his belongings. “Thank you.” 

The man’s heart was beating wildly in his chest as he made the two trips required to load up his car. The son remembered a similar incident ten years ago, when the father followed his son out into the driveway, taking the son’s head in his hands, and holding on tightly, not releasing him when it became obvious that the son wanted to be free from the grasp of his father’s hands. 

But the father did not follow the son into the driveway. And the son knew now that he was free from the father’s grasp. He opened the hatch-back of his little blue toyota as his heart beat strongly in his chest. “Everything is going to be okay,” he reminded those parts of his being that were terrified, “I’m gonna take good care of you,” the generative-nurturing-adult reminded those fearful and fragmented parts of his being. 

And so the man walked back through the threshold of his father’s house to retrieve the rest of his belongings that sat there by the front door that the father opened every morning so the little yellow Chihuahua could go outside to use the bathroom. And there sat the chair closest to the front door, the chair in which his father had rested so soundly the morning before, where the son was able to hear the father breathing so peacefully, and the sun rose with orange, and white, and midnight blue, as those white fireplace stones glowed bright red.

The son picked up the last of his things. He turned and walked out of his fathers home as calmly as was possible for him on that particular day. He gave thanks as he placed one foot in front of the other on the curving sidewalk that led to the driveway where his little blue car waited, the hatchback extended toward the sky.

The son placed his items in the car. He closed the dirty hatchback, feeling with his fingers the dirt and grime that covered his car. He opened the front car door. He slid into his seat. He noticed the roll of quarters that his father had given him for the turnpike. “Thank you, Father,” said the son.

“Thank you, Father, that your blessing cannot be revoked. Thank you for the blessing that cannot be taken from me, the blessing that is me. Thank you for the deep well of being that flows from deep within me. Thank you for all the gifts that man has given me. I pray as Christ did on the cross, ‘Father, forgive him, because he doesn’t know what he’s doing.’”

The man gave thanks in this way as he started his engine. He shifted into reverse and backed out of the unusually shaped driveway, being careful not to strike the mailbox or run off the curb. The man continued to give thanks in this way as he called his mother to see if he could stay with her again. The man gave thanks in this way as he used the quarters that his father had given him for the turnpike.  The man gave thanks with a pure heart. He prayed for the wholeness of his father. He prayed for his father’s restoration. He prayed that the generational curses that rest upon his father’s heart would be removed. He gave thanks for the gift that his father had given him that day. He gave thanks for his father exactly the way he was. And this was the miracle that came to pass that day.

This is the story that the middle-aged-man told to his friend that evening as they sat together at IHOP.

The writer, the one who now sat cross-legged on his mother’s, weighted blanket in his lap, fingers busily typing on his laptop, was watching as the time approached 7:30AM. He watched as he moved past one point of no return. He needed to leave now if he was to keep his appointment with Renita Borders, the lovely therapist that he would enjoy sitting with and talking to if he were to return today. 

But the traveller sensed a different option was being presented to him today, a non-path that was neither staying nor going. He sat at the crossroads. He acknowledged the passing from 7:30 to 7:31. He breathed in for a moment. He felt that he had other friends he needed to see here. He wondered what would happen if he kept going past the point of no return. 

January 6th, that was the date that he was scheduled to visit the Nurse Practitioner again so that he could remain on medical leave. He realized that he had those papers with him still, the paperwork that his employer needed in order that he remain on medical leave. Details.

The middle-aged-man sat with his friend at IHOP. He told him about the Cosmic Christ. He told him about his friend, the snake. He told him about the feminine rising from within. He told him about the miracle that had occurred at his father’s house that morning. The middle aged man continued to talk to his friend. And then the talking became much more than that. He felt his friend’s Presence, or rather, the man was present with his friend. The two men sat facing each other in the booth at IHOP making some kind of love without ever touching one another. The middle-aged-man was unable to maintain eye contact for fear of what he might see, in fear of what he might feel. The middle-aged man acknowledged all of this in the presence of his friend.

“Yes,” said his friend, “It appears that we are making love.”

The middle-aged-man allowed that love to be made. The middle-aged-man accepted that which had been unacceptable to his father. He allowed the love to be made in and through his being that night as he sat with his friend at IHOP. He allowed the love to flow between himself and his friend, as he had told him about the 50 shades of pray that he’d expereinced in the shower as he made love to his Lord. He confessed his desire to be penetrated. He talked about how the last woman he’d been with had submitted herself to him and how much he had enjoyed this woman who allowed him to be a man. He talked about how he felt, how he saw, who he was in the secretest of places, and it felt so absolutely free and good to the man.

“The last time another human being listened to me like this, I married her” said the man to his friend who sat across the booth. And then the man continued to talk even though it seemed that he should go home. The friend lingered. The man lingered. They allowed all of this to come to pass, as they made love to one another that night, all while sitting in the booth at IHOP.

The man spoke to his friend of his marriage relationship. In the Presence of his friend, in this deep love that was being made, the man was able to describe to his friend, the only one who had ever followed him anywhere, the deep sufferings that he’d experienced in his marriage. He described what it was like to be married to a woman who could never want a man, a woman who hated kissing, a woman who did not want to be looked in the eye, a woman who did not want to be breathed on, a woman who did not ever want to take it all, a woman who could not allow herself, even for the briefest moment, to submit to the strength of a man. A woman who protected herself at every turn. A woman who was trapped in survival mode. A woman who spoke in absolutes. A woman who threatened her husband with divorce. A woman who was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder but was unwilling to really look at how that might affect her loved ones. A woman who gaslighted her husband, who needed to be enmeshed with a husband who was sick. A woman who called names when things got tough. A woman who was deeply contracted. A woman who could not apologize. A woman who needed a man who would be a non-man. A woman who demanded obedience and justified herself in this by presenting her husband with options. A woman who sniffed and knew it all. A woman who demanded self-loathing while saying everything to try and help. A woman who wound herself around the man and begged him not to leave. A woman who, with one hand, motioned the man closer, and with the other hand pushed him away. A woman who he could not imagine would ever recognize the part that she played in his own misery. A woman who became ugly on the inside and out as her disease overtook her. A woman who did all these things in the most secret and subtle ways so that she always (yes, the man wants to use the word “always”) came out on top. The woman who wanted to be perfect. No. The woman who needed to be perfect. The woman who needed to be known. Yes, now the man wants to really let it out! The disgusting woman. The dreaded woman. That snake bitch cunt whore. That fucking Lesbian! The woman who deserved to have her head bashed in with a lamp. That disgustingly ugly whore of a bitch who would never let him be a fucking man. Goddamit! FUCK FUCK FUCK. The woman who would never give him what he wanted. That ugly bitch who held him back from all that he needed to be. CUNT CUNT CUNT bitch. I wish I cold fucking kill you. Fuck you! Fuck you! I hate you. I fucking hate you. I really fucking hate you. Why do you torture me like this you bith cunt. I wish I would have never married you. You are so fucking ugly. Do you know how fucking ugly you are? You look just like the father who touched your pussy. You deserve everything you ever got. You deserved to be fucked over. Look at you. How can you live with yourself. I wish you would fucking die. I hate you .I hate You . I hate you. Fucking bitch. I wish you would get fucking raped you little fuckin bitch. You are a non-humna little fucking contracted dwarf lesbian bitch. Why don’t you just fucking kill yourself? You know what? If it wasn’t for these kids I would have never stayed with you past year five. Do you hear me? Do you hear how much I hate you? I wish I could have left you years and years and years ago. Do you know how terrible it was to sleep next to you. Do you know how much I hated it. Do you know hos sick it made me to be your bitch. Do you have any fucking idea how much you fucking hurt me? You really don’t do you? You ignorant fucking bitch! You disgust me. I’d like to fucking slap you to the ground and have you beg me for your life, because that is what you did to me. You were fucking killing me with your subtle manipulations. You survival bitch. You were fucking killing me, do you know that? Goddammit! I fucking hate you. I want you to know how much I hate you. I want it to fucking kill you. I could grab your neck between my two hands and I could strangle you. I could watch you fucking struggle. I could fucking knock you around the room. You would be helpless to resist me after I got throug with you, and I would fuck you in the fucking ass, you bitch. I would demoralize you. I would take everything that you ever fucking took from me you fucking worthless whore. I would stuff the last twenty years of my life right up your fucking ass and when you begged me for mercy I would fuck you some more. I would humiliate you because that is what you deserve. You deserve to be fucking humiliated. You took from me. You are sick so fucking sick. I hate you. I wish I would have never fucking met you. I wish that the first time I saw you that I would have just fucking killed you and stuffed you in my pickup bed and taken you out to the country and buried you! Goddamit! You bitch fucking cunt fucking whore. AAAAHHHHH bitch whore cunt fuck kill you bitch fuck you hate hate grinding teeth grinding teeth hair falling out slimy bitch cunt.

These are the sacred words that streamed from the writer’s hands that morning as he reclined on the bed at his mother’s house. This is the pain that he lived in for many years. These are the sentiments that he contained so that no one would ever know how he felt. This is the shame that he turned upon himself. This was his illness. The disgust that he lived with in himself. This was far far more than the man shared with his friend that night. This was far far more than the writer even realized was still latent in his being.

The man sat. the man waited. His mother’s husband showered in the adjacent room. He could hear the water splashing on the tile. He heard his mother’s husband vocalize, the vocalizations in the shower that hint at the ecstasy of the primate who finds a warm water waterfall. The water ran through the pipes. The water was heated in the heater. The spiggot was turned. The cold water worked its way through the pipes. The hot water emerged. The primal being experienced the ecstasy. Praise be to the pipes and the fluid brother who flows through them. Andy Dufresne, the fluid brother who worked his way through the pipes that morning to find his way onto the skin of the man who showers. Thank you, Andy for showin us the way.

The shower stopped. The writer covered his face and breathed in deeply.

God, I offer myself to you
Build with me. Do with me as you will.
Fuck me God. Fuck me.
I want you inside me.
I want to give myself to you
I need you to bend me over and fuck me like the man that you are
Put the tie around my neck and control me
Please please please
Please fuck me
I need it daddy
Daddy, please fuck me
I need it. I need you to sread my legs and fuck me
Really really hard
Oh Jesus when will you fuck me?
Relieve me of the bondage of self
That I may better do your will
Take away my difficulties 

The father who wanted to put a bullet in my head
I am that father
I am the husband who wanted to fucking kill his wife
Oh God fuck me
Come inside me
Fill me with your come
I need your come
I want to taste it
Let me suck your dick
I need to taste your come
Please please please oh god
Oh fuck I want to moan you all the way in
Why can’t I be a woman so I can spread my legs like that
And just take everything a man has to offer
Why can’t I give myself away like that
Why can’t I just be owned
By a man who will protect me with violence?
Why can’t I?

Who will hold me?
How will you hold me when the pain comes like this
She looked me in the eyes and betrayed me with a kiss
She said, “you cannot walk on water, with a tongue sharp to kill”
But, in the eye of the hurricane
You are always still


It was now 8:46, well past the point of no return. The man would not meet with Renita Borders today. The man met with his friend last night. And apparently he was involved in some kind of therapeutic process. The man found his cell phone and called Renita, leaving a message with her assistant to let her know that he would not be there that day. 

The man sat. He heard cars passing on the distant turnpike, the turnpike that his father provided the quarters to travel.


Day 15
8:58 AM

The writer recalled how he’d realized that he was a Hindu, and how he had eventually come to call upon Kali Ma that day on the mountain after he followed the small stream up to the large boulders which rested among the thick and sprouting green beings of the soil:

As the man continued his awakening process over the years he gained many tools. He read many books and integrated the life experience of the “other” into his own practice. After Penny had shared with him that he was “one of the top five self-bludgeoners” that she’d ever met, the man tried to discover for himself the love that he so desperately needed. Penny gave him a book: The Pocket Pema Chodron. He read a book by Thich Nhat Hanh called The Art of Power.  From these two great teachers he came to experience the power of silence. He began to observe on a deeper level what was actually going on in his mind and in his body. He also rediscovered a medicine in his beloved marijuana plant.

The writer found this song upon his lips:

“There’s a beautiful green leaf that grows upon the earth. 
It helps us to sing and encourages mirth
But the man says no and there’s a reason why
He doesn’t want us to see what we can see when we are high”

The herb connected him with himself. He was able to experience joy, once again, in a world that seemed to be crushing him. In a marriage where he often times felt guilty for being himself, the marijuana came to him and offered him peace and love and joy within himself. It also gave him ample opportunity to face his fears. The chronology of all of this was impossible for the writer to untangle as he sat at his mother’s home writing on the Thursday morning, the second day of the year two-thousand-and-twenty. But he saw the healing process that had happened in his heart.

There was Thich Nhat Hanh first. The vietnamese monk who had watched so many of his friends and family die in the war that ravaged his country. The man who had been exiled from his country. The man who taught his readers to breathe. The man who described the beauty and the simplicity and the freedom that may be experienced in the breathing-in and the breathing-out. It was in this book that was given to his wife by a great icelandic princess that the man discovered that he was breathing and that it mattered. The awakening that happened in the heart of the buddha showed the way to the breath and the universal consciousness that we may all experience as we turn our attention toward that simplest of all human experience which we all have in common. The breath, that form which none of us will abandon until our body finally stops breathing. 

It was Thich Nhat Hanh who first helped the man to see this. And then there was Pema in this little book that Penny gave him. Pema was simple and digestable. She kept bringing him back to the here and the now. She kept urging the awakening man to go to the places that scared him. She invite him to let things be when he thought they needed to change to his liking. She invited him to accept his birthright, the gift of this moment, that which is beyond the resolution that we all think will finally satisfy us. She invited him to sit with his loneliness. She dared him to discover himself and to accept himself and his attitudes and his thoughts for exactly what they were. She gave him permission to just allow himself to be. She gave him permission to stop trying to fix himself. She asked him to speak to his fear with respect. She wondered what would happen if he just stuck his head right in that demons mouth instead of trying to cast him out. She invited him to go deeper when the world was telling him to go higher. She asked him to sit as fear was screaming in his face, trying to tell him what he had to do. She told a simple story of the Tigers and the Strawberries which went something like this:

A young woman who is walking through the forest when discovers that she is being pursued by tigers. She runs as fast as she can to escape the terrifying creatures who chase her. As she runs she comes to a cliff. She climbs down a vine which is growing down the cliff-face. As she descends the vine she looks down. Below her she sees yet another group of growling tigers. “Oh my,” says the young woman to herself, “there are tigers above me and below me. What will I do now?” It is in this moment that she notices a little family of mice above her. The mice are gnawing through the vine which holds her there suspended above and below the hungry tigers. In this very moment she sees something else. It is a little strawberry plant. A single berry grows from the plant’s green body. The woman reaches out. She picks the berry. She smells the fruit. She eats that strawberry.

Yes. That is the end of that story. The story with the non-ending. The story without resolution. The story with a happy ending. The story with a tragic ending. The story of the woman who reaches out and plucks the strawberry from the vine. Praise be to the tigers and the strawberries and the mice who gnaw on the vine. Praise be to the one who eats the strawberry.

It was in this way that the man began his meditative practice. It was in this way that the man found himself eating every strawberry that he found as he dangled above and below the tigers that chased him through life. It was in this way that the man found a new teacher and he dedicated himself to her teachings. He carried his Pema around with him in the right side-pocket of his cargo pants. It was in this way that the man continued to make a deeper peace with himself and the world in which he lived. Praise be to the Pema who asks for no such praise, the one who did not hold herself accountable to any deity.

And so it was inscribed on the inside cover of the pocket Pema:

To Travis,
Be the one you dream you can be.
Penny

And it was in this way that Pema and Penny became the same being to him. It was in this way that the man also gave himself to the teachings of Penny who always gave him unconditional positive regard (Praise be to the one who was called Carl Rogers!).

The doorbell rang at his mother’s house. The man wondered if it was his father who had finally come to put that bullet in his head. He heard no violence as his mother’s husband answered the door. He heard no gunshots. He chose, once again, the strawberry that was before him.

The man was never fully faithful to the Vipassana practice given to him. He phased in and out. This man was never faithful at anything, even the things that he claimed to love the most, like his music or his family. But, the man did continue.

It was in this way that the man found himself on occasion sharing this joy with the world. He and two friends started a meditation group. They read together. They sat together. They talked together. They read again.They sat again. They talked again. And that was their form. That was the form that they held together. Together, they gently practiced and learned from one another. They learned to listen. They learned to give space for what was said instead of trying to fix things or give advice. They gave each other the gift on one another’s presence. It was in this way that they practiced on-again and off-again for four years, sometimes drinking tea, sometimes just meeting for breakfast, sometimes reading TNH, sometimes reading Joseph Campbell.

Please allow these words to hasve their effect. The mountain is high. The valley is low. A heart that is turned inward toward you. 

he had experienced in this practice. And this is how it happened that the father mocked the son and called him a Hindu as if it was a dirty word. And this is how the son hung up the phone with his father that day with a hurting heart because of the father that mocked him. And this is how the son continued his practice on-again and off-again not understanding why the man’s father would ever think he was a Hindu, and not at all thinking he was a Hindu and not even really very aware at all of the historical connection between Buddhism and Hinduism. Pema certainly never mentioned any Hindu Gods or Godesses, she herself describing her worldview as non-theist (not anti-theist because there was no position against anything that would bring true peace into being).

And then it came to pass that months later the man found himself talking to an old friend in front of the Wal-Mart with whom he was sharing his most recent spiritual awakening (for there had certainly been many in his precious and sacred lifetime). The old friend was very glad that the man was doing well and she shared with him how she had been concerned about his well being for quite some time.
“I heard that you had become a Hindu,” she whispered to the man as they stood there beside the sliding doors in front of the Wal-Mart.

“That’s strange,” thought the man, who honestly recoiled at the idea himself. “I do not understand why people think that I am a Hindu.”

And so it came to pass that the younger man went home where he brought his groceries in from the little blue Toyota, unpacked them, and made himself a nice lunch of lentil soup and strawberry shortcake with coconut milk for lunch. A meal that fit his current vegan diet (a diet that he made no vows to continue forever, but one which he currently embraced with a joyful and appropriate zeal).

It was in this way that he found himself doing a google search for “Hinduism,” after which he found himself reading Wikipedia which helped him to understand this: The name Hindu was not a name that was adopted by any one people or religious group. It was actually a description that foreigners assigned to the people who generally lived by the Indus River, “Indus” meaning a great body of water, in this case a great flowing body of water. 

It was in this simple way that the man munching on lentil stew, at that moment, as he sat in front of the computer in the great adobe house, came to understand that he how he truly was a Hindu. He was one of a Universal people who draw their Life from the Great River. 

And it was in this way that the man became curious about Hinduism (however broad that spectrum may be). It was in this way that he came to ask Shiva, the divine feminine to arise from within him, to uncoil the great serpent that he had felt quivering at the root of his being. It was in this way that he called for a marriage of the divine masculine, who was Shiva, to marry the divine feminine, Shakti in his being. It was in this way that he continued to see the diving in all that is. It is in this way that he came to see the Christ in the Hindu gods and goddesses. It is in this way that he met Kali Ma and asked her to come and couple with him. It is in this way that he was aroused by the possibility of backpacking by himself up to a mountain lake which was fed by a stream which he would follow as far as he could, at which point he would stomp the ground and summon the great Kali Ma to come and destroy him. It was in this way that he would eventually (ironically?) rediscover this prayer. 

I want to know the Christ
The power of his resurrection
The fellowship of sharing in his suffering
Becoming like him in his death
And so somehow to receive
A resurrection from the dead

It was in this way also that the man, earlier in the year, in April as Easter approached, began to invite death to come and take that which death had a rightuful claim to. It was in this spirit that the man wrote thes words:

I wept for the women who’d lost me
As I waited in the oneness I had found
I forgave all those deities who’d crossed me
As I lead my body to the burial ground
As I laid my body in the ground

And this is how the man came to recognize himself as the Universal, the Hindu, one who lives by a great flowing body of water from which he draws true life.

Praise be to Shiva and Shakti who unite within us, making us whole. Praise be to Kali Ma who lops off our heads and our ego. Praise be to the serpent who is coiled and quivering, ready to open an travel up to the crown. Praise to the She. Praise to the He. Praise be to the Christ whose arms open to receive us all.

Praise be to the Great River, that which nourished us all. The Universal River! Praise be to the Hindus who live on its shores and are baptized in its waters.

Amen
Selah


Day 15
11:15AM

The writer checked his emotions, then he checked his motivations, meaning that he allowed Presence to greet them both. He allowed his innate presence, that essence of his being to welcome all those parts of his being. 

He faced South into beveled edge of the mirror that showed a repeating image of the lover par of his face, that wild and bearded aspect of his being. His brother, in a recent text exchange between the two had expressed how much he wished he could grow a beard like his older brother. And there certainly were interactions between his beard and the world which encouraged him to allow its continued growth. But it was the man’s relationship with his own beard that was the most important to him.

The beard had been given permission to expand into its current state of large-ness over a year ago as the man left the psychiatric unit in Roswell and enrolled himself in the treatment center in Rio, Racho. The middle-aged-man called it his homeless-beard, and he freely spoke of its significance whenever the chance presented itself.

“This is my homeless-beard,” the man found himself professing, “I am considering buying a one-way-ticket to the big island of Hawaii. If I’m going to be homeless I don’t want to be cold.” These words drew a mixed response of fear, confusion, and smiles from his listeners as he spoke them in varying degrees of detail and length.

After his recent hitchhike to Amarillo, the man did not think that he was ready to become willingly homeless just yet. If that was the path, the Spirit would need to do some more work in him. He did not enjoy the experience of not knowing where he would sleep safely that night---the first time he’d ever known such a thing. He let the door close quickly once as he investigated an abandoned office complex where it appeared someone had already taken up residence. It was not in his plans to go back there.

Hitchiking that day, sitting on the side of the road, waiting for a ride that would never be offered, his hands getting colder and colder gave him just enough understanding of whatever that was to know that he was not ready to go there willingly. Yet today, he was willing to stay at his mother’s house, passing a waypoint on the non-path to the -point-of-no-return, and what that point was he was not quite clear on. It was in this way that he found himself facing South, his face split in the beveled edge of a large mirror (though not near as large as the one in the kitchen of the adobe house).

In his book Wild Mind, Bill Plotkin identified the South as the Wild Indigenous One. “Is this the beard of the Wild Indigenous One that I am seeing in the mirror this morning?” wondered the dying author. He had read a book once by Robert Bly, called Iron John. He remembered the hairy wild man as being a main impetus of the message in that book. The writer was coming to accept that this South-facing position was no coincidence, but rather a deeper wisdom that had brought him into this relationship with the wildness of his beard. He pulled up the shades on the West facing window, acknowledging his Beloved Muse (Plotkin). 

His beloved muse, that one who dives into the mystery of the she-serpent within, who is curious about the upside-down cross, The one who wants to document the process of moving past the point-of-no-return. The one who calls upon Kali Ma. The one who revels in the experience and the danger and the fear of walking away from the God-of-culture, attempting to integrate the most ancient of non-religions, shamanism. 

The man was now beginning to acknowledge all four of the cardinal directions. In the mirror he could see the North wall of the bedroom in which he stood. The North, where the generous and caring mature adult watched over, inquiring about the man’s personal well being, while also concerned for the well-being of his family, the world, and the health of the planet.

The East, where his innocent sage lived and breathed deeply. This is the direction from which his teacher, Thich Nhat Hanh had arrived in him. The innocent/sage. The one who is child-like sometimes in naivete, yet also carries the wisdom of the ages in the manifestation of this innocence. Also, the East is where the trickster comes from, this one whom he saw so strongly in his daughter, this one who is ready to let go of the serious nature of life and become playful in whatever format is available. The trickster who could easily find herself transmuted into the sacred fool, that one who intentionally steps into trouble in order to stir the metaphorical pot, allowing the dross to rise to the top and the Truth to condense.

According to our friend, Bill, we each have one Cardinal direction that is innately our strong-suit. And it is the direction directly behind us as we embody our great strength that is the weakest. As the writer took his lesson from the wisdom-voice which seemed to be writing this book, it appeared that his primary direction was the North. It appeared that it was this nurturing adult who had brought him this far in his journey. It was his nurturing adult who was introducing him to these other aspects of his being. It was the generative nurturing adult who was bringing all of them together and caring for these fragmented aspects of the man’s being. It was the nurturing adult who had showed up yesterday at his father’s house as he raged against his son, trying to bring him into submission with insults. “Yes,” thought the man, “Praise be to the nurturing adult that lives in me, this one who cares for me, this one who cares for the world.”
However, today the writer faced South into the mirror with the beveled edge that split the bottom half of his face in two. He faced his wild-man beard, the beard that even his wild-man brother was jealous of. The writer sensed an opportunity to nurture this wild-man of the South. He would rely on the North to help him to develop his South, for it was from the North that his natural strength flowed. 

Was it the Wild-Inidigeous one who searched for shelter in Amarillo? Was it the Wid-Indigenous one who perceived the life process as a hunter-gatherer? Was it his southern nature that found the nuts and berries and followed the herd. Was it his wild indigenous nature who was the fisher-of-men and fish alike? Was it this nature that desperately needed to find some expression in order for the man to live in a healthy way? Was it for the reviving of this nature that the man had come to this place in his life? Was it that southern nature that the man had gone to the forest to recover, or possibly discover? Was it this wild nature that brought him to his father’s house, to face the wild-man of his youth himself? Was it his wild nature that caused him to move toward what scared him?

The writer remembered his practice at the adobe house in the college-cow-town, when he stood at the counter facing North, with the pillows behind him at the sink, in dialogue with this being. He wondered if he could do the same here, in his mother’s house facing South. He got the pillows off the bed and placed them on the floor behind him. He sat. He brought his hands together and placed his thumbs on his forehead. He bowed toward his heart. In silence. In prayer.

He bowed. He prayed. He acknowledged the South-One. As he moved into a pose that he thought felt wild and indegenous, knees bent, feet forward, forearms resting on his knees, spine straight and ready—a position of restful readiness, he became aware. He became aware of the bedroom furniture. He became aware that his books and his laptop were resting on the same bedroom furniture that had inhabited his parent’s room when he was a child.

The tall dresser in the East wall was where his father kept a growing stack of playboy magazines. The magazines that the middle-aged-man, when he was teen-ager, used to masturbate and presumably the same magazines that his father also used to masturbate, a strange bond that the writer had not, until now, been aware of. He had never imagined that his father used the same magazines to pull his own off.

The writers’ step-father (by which name he had never referred to him before) poked his head in and gave him a key to the house. He was running out to do some errands. “Make sure you don’t run off with that key, now,” He said. The step-son did his best to not read anything in to that imperative. 

The writer recalled how he used to have his favorite magazines, and the joy that he felt when a new magazine magically appeared in his father’s dresser. The writer walked over to the cabinet, opening the familiar door. There were three shelves inside. It was empty now. The writer checked several of the other drawers in the wooden cabinets. the drawers in the bedroom set were mostly empty.

It was on the top shelf where the magazines were kept. When the writer, in his young adult life, had become a born again Christian he questioned the presence of those magazines of his youth on a moral level. He understood the magazines to be wrong. He understood them to be of a sinful nature. He did not question how he had come to this conclusion. It just seemed to fit. And so the young Christian vowed to never touch the dirty magazines again that had lurked so darkly on the upper shelf of his father’s dresser. 

The writer stood waiting, facing South as he waited for the punch-line to all of this. This was a story that he’d told before. Did his southern nature have some more to add to this story? “What does the Wild-Indigenous one have to say?” the writer spoke out loud. He waited. He took a seat on the pillows behind him and he waited.

“What was sex like,” wondered the writer, “before a simile of sex could be experienced by looking at an image of a perfect specimen in the pages of a magazine? What was sex like before the act of intercourse could be viewed as quickly as it took to say, “hey google? Maybe this is about more than sex. What was life like before there were wooden drawers in which to store playboy magazines? What is life lik for the wild-indegenous one? What is life like for this being who exists in here who does not quite understand all of the progress that has been made and how ‘good’ it is for us all? What is life like for this being who has been forced to wake by the clock? What is life like for this being who is now required to be at the same location for forty hours a week and fifty-two days a year in order to survive? What does these kind of restrictions do to this being? What is it like for a being to wake up to his own sexuality with a picture of a woman in contrast to an actual woman? What is it like for this being who evolved to hunt and to gather to be confined in these ego-structures and finding his sex in magazines and on-line? 

Dear reader, I do not intend to romantacize hunter-gatherer culture. I know that we are not going back. I am just asking these questions in an effort to reach out to this wild-indigenous one as a generative-nurturing adult. The southern nature of my being is the one at my back, the weakest of my being. So, how does this work? Where do I find myself today?

“Father?”
“Yes, son?”
“What time is it? Where do I go from here?”

The writer felt his strength fading.
He had been writing since early that morning with only a short break to shower and eat.
But, he thought that he’d give something on more try.

When the writer was a young boy, his parents brought him to church. They all attended church for a short while. The young boy attended a class in which they taught him why he was to be baptized. All the boy could remember of the class later was the story of how melted gold from the golden calf was poured down the throats of the disobedient Israelites who had formed an idol while moses was away getting the ten commandments. The writer did not even know now how accurate that story was.

The young man sat with his family one Sunday morning at the church service. The wooden pews were cushioned by a plush velvet seat. Light streamed through the stained glass windows of the First Christian Church. The boy sat next to his father, listening to a sermon. Kyle Maxwell, the pastor/preacher told a story that the man still remembers.

The story is of a man whose house has been drowned in a flood. The man is sitting on his roof, waiting for God to rescue him. A large log floats by. “I don’t need that log,” says the man, “I’m waiting for the Lord to rescue me.” Then, a man in a row boat comes by. “Can I help you?” says the man in the row boat. “No, thank you,” says the man, “I’m waiting for the Lord to rescue me.” Finally a rescue helipcopter spots the man sitting on the roof. The pilot shines a bright light on the man and communicates with the man through a loudspeaker. “YOU. DOWN THERE!” says the helicopter pilot. “WE WILL LOWER DOWN A BASKET AND HAUL YOU UP!” “NO THANK YOU,” yells the man politely, “I’M WAITING ON THE LORD TO RESCUE ME.” The helicopter lowers the basket. The man refuses to get in. The helicopter raises the basket and flies away in order to rescue others.
The flood waters rise around the man. He is washed away and drowns.

When the man gets to heaven the man asks the Lord. Why didn’t you save me God? I was putting my trust in you. “Well son,” says the Lord, “I sent a log. I sent a row boat. And I sent a helicopter, and you didn’t accept my help in any of these things.”

I honestly, now do not know why I am telling this story. I’ve been writing for a long time and when I started writing, this story was in my mind. I thought that I would somehow come full circle. I hoped that somehow God would do a miracle here. Maybe I’m missing the log. 

I suppose that this is a story about how…I’m tired…I need to rest

Maybe this is not where the herd is headed. Maybe there are just no nuts or berries to find on this path. Maybe sometimes we have to walk for a ways down a path in order to finally turn back around. But here I am, participating in this form. Here I am. Praise to the directionless story. Praise to the fool who has no idea where he is going. Praisse to the wild-indigenous one who goes out searching. Praise to the Scout who looks for a new land. Praise be to the all. Praise be to the non-path.

Long pause…5 minutes or longer…

Dear reader, minutes have passed since I last wrote, thank you for bearing with me. Thank you for coming with me on this journey. As I was unable to see any connection in the thoughts I have shared wayou over the last several pages, I must admit that I began to despair. It is incredible how quickly a heart can fall into despair. It is incredible how quickly I, in particular, can fall into despair. 
whates
I will attempt to recount what happened here. I closed my laptop, as I said, despairing in the meaninglessness of what I had written. I went as far as wondering if I had chosen incorrecty in my choice to stay here in Oklahoma City this morning. And in the recounting of the story of the man and the flood, I felt very nearly crushed by this practical voice of wisdom which might come from someone more spiritually minded, but less abusive than my own father. I felt sick in my spirit. I began backtracking, just barely falling short of questioning God as to where I went wrong. I returned a text to my friend, kalei who was inviting me for steaks tomorrow night at his house, thinking, “Oh yeah, I definitely missed it! Look there’s the log floating by my submerged home. There’s the Lord trying to save me, trying to get me back home so that I can salvage whatever little bit may be left of my life. And it is possible that all of this is true! I can’t really say for sure. But here is what happened next.

I opened ACIM to lesson 13, which reads as follows: 

“A meaningless world engenders fear.” 

ACIM goes on to say, “Recognition of meaninglessness arouses intense anxiety in all the separated ones. It represents a situation in which God and the ego “challenge” each other as to whose meaning is to be written in the empty space that meaninglessness provides. The ego rushes in frantically to establish its own ideas there, fearful that the void may otherwise be used to demonstrate its own impotence and unreality. And on this alone it is correct.

ACIM continues, “It is essential, therfor, that you learn to recognize the meaningless, and accept it without fear. If you are fearful, it is certain that you will endow the world with attributes that it does not possess, and crowd it with images that do not exist. To the ego, illusions are safety devices, as they must also be to you who equate yourself with the ego.

The writer wondered, “Does the Wild-Indigenous one experience meaningless? What is meaningless to the Wild-Inidgenous one? Does the indigenous one pass up the help of a floating log because it has too little meaning?” 

“Who is this wild one? Who is this indigenous one?” the writer continued in his musings. “What does ‘meaning’ mean to this indigenous one? Is it the Wild-One that can carry us through when meaning ceases to be apparent? Is there one within us who is not demanding for anything to be meaningful? Is there One who just simply is? Is there One within us who does not interpret the lack of nuts or berries or the lack of game as the lack of meaning? Is there one who senses the emptiness (the void) and simply walks on, eyes and ears alert, accepting whatever may seem to be currently unavailable?”

The writer wondered about this woman who wrote ACIM. He thought about the rising of the feminine in this world. He thought about how the masculine nature served humanity in its early stages, but now it appears that the feminine nature is rising from within to wake us up. The she-snake that is unwinding within us, working its way up the crown chakra of humanity.

The writer wondered how the perfect images of naked female beings in the magazines had affected him. He recalled the phrase “objectfication of the female body,” that he’d come to understand as he came into some understanding, years ago, into what it meant to be a feminist. 

He cracked the window a bit to let some fresh air in. He thought he might have heard the voice of his new friend Sebastian, one of the two boys who had worked a miracle for him yesterday as he was struggling to recover from the interaction with his father. His mother said that everyone called him “Sebby.” The middle-aged-man like that name, Sebby. Praise be to the boys on power-scooters who drive up and down the street, bringing salvation to the world!



Day 15
2:43PM

Dear Reader, It is I, the one who narrates. I AM. The One who tells this story. The one who sees the Universal in our man here. It can be a challenge for everyone when I show up. It can be a challenge for others when the Universal appears in a being. It was a challeng for those in the Near East when it happened over there all those years ago. Maybe we can make some peace with that together. 

That which is written can never be complete. That which is spoken can never be removed from its speaker, and this is why the Annointed one didn’t write his own book. And why, you may ask were the gospels written so many years after the one they called Messiah walked the earth? The answer is in these words somewhere if you will search your own heart carefully. Are you ready? Here they are:

Some time needed to elapse between the happening and the telling. In human terms we are talking about anywhere from thirty-five to eighty years. That’s quite a bit of time between the happening and the telling, plenty of time for a lot of things to happen to those memories. Plenty of time the heart to get a hold of what had happened to do with it exactly what a human heart does.

Having been moved by these words, the writer opened to the book of Luke. He read of Zecaraiah and Elizabeth, and Mary and how the ange Gabriel announced the coming of John and the annointed one. The writer, having become sleepy laid down for a nap.

He awoke with  vision of a large, grey cat upon a grey rock.

He departed to lake Hefner to visit the feral cat colony

4:39PM

The ten dollars in quarters which th middle-aged-mans’ father had shared with him to spend on the turnpike were now dwindling. The sun was setting in the Southwest as the man accelerated. The man’s prayer language which had arisen from within in his twenties had never fully abated. It had certainly been renewed over the last year and especially in the last to weeks, an reintegrated remnant of his penecostal roots. He allowed the syllables to come from his lips.

He had gathered a few items as he moved toward lake hefner at the speed of life, his laptop, his Rumi, his new New Testament with his name embossed in silver, his leather bound journal—a christmas gift from his youngest daughter, the uniquely shaped and stained piece of wood from his son which served to hold open the pages of a book was now bound to the leather journal. 

After he left his mother’s house, he turned back around to get his mandolin when a vision of it appeared in his mind’s eye. These days, when he backtracked, he asked that God would accept it as a prayer. It was a moment when he was saying “yes” to the speed of life, a moment where he was saying “yes” to the willingness to move forward, even if it meant taking a step backward. He checked between the two front seats to see if his elk skin gloves were there, not hat he would necessarily need them. The thermometer on his dash display vassilated between fifty-nine and sixty degrees. 

As he made his way South on Hefner parkway, he asked google maps for assistance in finding Louie’s. “In one-thousand feet, turn right onto East wharf drive,” said the artificially intelligent voice emanating from his Samsung. As he made his turn, he saw the sun reflecting off of the relatively smooth waters of lake Hefner, a contrast to the wind and white-caps of three days prior. 

He pulled into the parking lot at Louie’s, just as he’d done three days ago as he was brought his children to meet with his father. He recalled that he and his family were listening to the Brother Jack album as they rolled into the parking lot at Louie’s. Being the first to arrive, they sat in the small car listening together to the second track, an instrumental called medieval-un-fair. The middle-aged-man rejoiced in the musical excellence of his friend Matthew Hope, pointing out to his daughter and son-in-law the highlights of his friend’s work.

After the track was finished, the three of them went inside the restaurant to get a seat. They were the first customers that morning as the numbers on the man’s phone clicked over to read 11:00. His youngest daughter expressed her hesitancy to meet with her grandfather. 

“Can I sit next to you, Dad?” she said.
“You bet you can,” he responded.”
“I’m so happy to have this time with you, Dad,” the father was pleasantly surprised to hear his youngest daughter say this.

The rest of the crowd was soon to follow. They all stood in the entry way of Louie’s exchanging hugs and greetings. The manager drew two round high tables together, and the party of seven was seated. The middle-aged-man’s son sat next to his papa. The children’s grandfather rarely ever stopped talking. And he spoke very very loudly the whole time.

The grandfather had generously offered to buy his family this meal. He started them off with some appetizers. He ordered a margarita for himself. The son was weary, for he knew that alcohol never helped his father hold his form. It was not that the son objected to alcohol on a moral level. But, the son knew his father. He was volatile. And the alcohol only increased that volatility. The son could see fragility in the only mans darkening eyes. He could see his heart break, his suffering, it was right there just below the surface. The son also detected the violence in the old man. The son did not want his perceptions to be right. He truly hoped it would be different this time.

The food came. The son ordered salmon, which came with a wilty ceasar salad and steamed vegetable. When the son discovered black mold on his brocolli, he quietly informed their waitress, Daisha. Unfortunately, the man’s father caught wind of what was happening, announcing loudly to the entire restaurant that the brocolli was moldy, “A little penicillin never hurt anybody, Eh!?” the old man roared. The middle-aged-man’s two daughters and son-in-law sat opposite the bellowing grandfathe at the same table with their father, the middle-aged-man. They exchanged several glances of bewilderment between them. Their disbelief as the father seemed to create one cringy moment after another.

“This is how I grew up,” said the middle-aged-man to his eldest after one of these glances.

The lunch at Louie’s came to an end. The family exchanged hugs and blessings. In the parking lot, the grandfather told one last story to the family of the feral cats that lived in the rocks just down the bike path to the North. It was his father’s story and the vision that he’d had as he was awakening from his nap—a vision of a large grey cat sitting on a grey rock--that brought the middle-aged-man here as the sun was setting.

As he took to the asphalt path on the shore of lake Hefner, traffic sped by on Hefner Parkway to his East. Mallard ducks floated on the smooth water to his West. And the grey rocks that made up the shoreline reminded him of a song that he had not thought of in quite some time.

I was bitten by a serpent
By the rocks by the road by the beach
As I sat down to play my guitar
On the rocks by the road by the beach

As he continued his forward movement North, the feral cat colony came into view just one-hundred-and-fifty feet up ahead. Once he arrived there was a smell to the place, like a wild animals den. A pile of orange and yellow cat food waited to be eaten. A white paper bowl patterned with purple and blue patterns sat filled with milk. Matted hay-straw between the large grey rocks provided bedding, a soft resting place. A grey cat kept a close eye on the man who took his mandolin from the case and began singing the next lines of the song he’d written along this very shore almost twenty-five years ago.

Now it’s getting hard to breath
On the rocks by the road by the beach
And I wonder who will find me laying here
On the rocks by the road by the beach

The man wrote this song before he met the mother of his children. He wrote this song before he’d met the Jesus of the bible belt. On these same rocks by the road by the beach he wrote of the serpent. The serpent that would appear to him in visions and dreams periodically throughout his life had also appeared to him here as he sat on these rocks all those years ago. This time he played the song on his new mandolin, Lina, his gift from the Universe that his father had given him the grace to hold.

“Is this the wild-indegenous one who brings us to the feral-cat-colony?” he wondered. “Was I the wild-indigenous one who drew him to the rocks by the road by the beach nearly twenty five years ago? There sat the middle-aged-man with his expanding beard while the ducks dove and stretched their wings and floated on a relatively calm lake Hefner. Citizens passed him by on the walking path. Praise be to the Serpent who had bitten the young man so many years ago on the rocks by the road by the beach. Praise be to the cats who find their home in those rocks by the road by the beach.

Someone made their offering to the cat’s here in the form of large chunks of stinking canned meat. There was more food here than they could eat.

Just the day before, the son, before his father melted down asked his father to take him to see the cat-colony that the son now observed. His father instead, answer the calling on his life in a different way which prevented them from seeing this together. The father had surrendered to the constrictive power of the snake that was now eating him alive, digesting his flesh and his bones. Praise be to the Serpent who eats us all. Praise be to the Serpent who eats her own tail forming a circle from which only death can deliver us from!

The father had a floating model of a mallard duch in his swimming pool. But the man saw before him now dozens of real ducks. Groups of three or four periodically flapped their wings and took to the sky. Seagulls appeared over head. A small group of male mallards circled back around as the man sat there on the grey rocks, one cat still eyeing  his cautiously…or was it just curiously. The man had learned on his LSD journey that he could not assume that he knew the attitude of the animals.

The man half-expected his father to spontaneously arrive on the scene, for them to share an impossibly sacred moment, as they answered the same calling on their life. The son looked up and down the walking path. He did not see his father. The north wind, which was picking up now, began to chill his fingers and agitate the waters. The ducks came and went. They circled. They landed.

The cats had plenty of food and shelters—man made shelters made of grey plastic storage containers. Large rocks placed on top prevented the shelters from blowing away. 

Two bicyclist wearing bright yellow jackets passed the colony

The cats had solar powered heaters in these man-made homes. Someone loved these wild cats. Someone even provided water dishes for the cats, although there was an entire lake of water lapping at the rocky shore. 

The same young man who once lived in this town--The young man who visited the rocks by the road by the beach—This young man also visited the zoo searching for songs. He played his guitar in reverberating stairwells. He visited the airport with his guitar, singing for the arriving travellers. He brought his guitar to the river walk in bricktown once it was built to play for the people of Oklahoma City.

One of the cats approached him now. He knelt. The cat came slowly up to him and rubbed against his leg several times, and then stepped away. The cat meowed, and then reapproached the man. The larger of two greys approached. The two cats pressed their heads together, backed up and hissed at one another.

It had been some time, over five days now, since the man had left his Eli cat at home. The Eli. The man lingered in this space with the cats, the sun setting through the clouds, traffic buzzing by behind him. He faced West toward the setting sun and the water. He acknowledged the North. He acknowledged the South. He acknowledged the East behind him. A man passed on a skateboard. 

The man considered standing up and saying his goodbyes to the cat, but he did not. He continued to linger, curious about what might happen. He adored the attention of the grey felines, basking somehow in their presence as a large woman in a pink sweatshirt approached their position. Geese honked as they flew just a few feet over the path and landed in the water.

The middle-aged-man allowed his breaths to expand, breathing in to the presence of the cats, very much like he’d enjoyed the presence of his friend at IHOP last night. All the cars on the Hefner parkway now had their light on. The lighthouse at Louie’s flashed orange. The red neon lighting trimmed the restaruant. The man’s hands grew colder.

The man recalled how his friend Fred had taught him how to windsurf on these waters. “Different waters now,” thought the man, chuckling to himself as he became nostalgic and responsive to his own being. He had brought a few girls, or rather young women out to this lake in the evening with his guitar, singing to them as the sun set. A woman passed walking a sturdy black and white pit bull mix. A man in a body suit pedaled by. The lights of the city shone on the horizon, past the lake’s waters. A man and a woman approached, holding hands.

The man felt rocked now in the buzz of the traffic behind him, and the gentle caress of the wind comforted him even as the coldness increased in his hands. Traffic on the footpath increased as the sun went down. One deep breath after another, his heart joined with this moment. The man experienced the same sense of apprectiation that he’d felt as a young man, the same sense of awe, of reverence, or perhaps a deeper sense of awe and reverence, if that can be. Or perhaps the awe and reverence were now just textured by time, witnessed through the lens of many more years of life.

He made peace with his father, once again, the one who had told him of this place. He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as his friend, the Vietnamese monk had taught him to do years ago. The ducks rose and fell on the small perturbations on the surface of the water as the sunlight continued to diminish.

One of the sayings of the man who had baptized him weeks ago at the church in Herford, Texas was this: The Goodness of God cannot be exaggerated. The middle-aged-man sensed that was true. He accepted this gift of life. He accepted his father for exactly who he was. He accepted the mother of his children as he accepted himself, even as he knew that he still harbored anger toward her, as was quite evident in the sacred flow of words this morning, that honest expression that came from the abuse that he’d received from her.

He wondered if he could say an honest prayer. He chose the one that he’d discovered at the Psychiatric unit just over a year ago. “God, please help me.” And now he added, “God please help us all.”

As he prayed this prayer, an old man with a hobble in his step appeared. The cats knew his voice. As he spoke a small cat emerged from his grey, plastic shelter. She was skinny, her hair was matted and uneven. Her breathing was labored and her posture was awkward. The man with the hobbled gait spoke to the little girl. He laid out food. He laid out yogurt on the rock.

“Are you okay?” the hobbled man aske the middle-aged-man who now realized that he was slumped, his head resting in his hands as he observed all of this happening.
“Yes, I am. thank you very much for asking,” said the middle-aged-man.

“I feed this one antibiotics,” said the older man. “you should’ve seen her a couple of  weeks ago. She had green drool dripping from her mouth. But she’s getting better. I’m going to bring a cat-carrier out here and see if I can take her to the vet. I brought on out last week. I set it down on the ground. She wasn’t afraid of it, so we’ll see.”

The middle-aged-man and the old man who cared for the cats lingered there together as the sky darkened. 

“Are those solar panels for heaters in their homes?” asked the middle-aged-man.

“yeah,” said the old man, “I’m not a physicist, but that’s the best I could do.”

They lingered a moment more.

“Well,” said the old man, “you have a good evening.”

“you have a good evening too,” said the middle-aged man, “and, thank you. Thank you for your kindess towards these animals and toward me.”

The old man paused for a moment. He smiled. “This is the best part of my day,” he said.

“I think it matters for this world,” said the middle-aged-man.

“Yes, I think it does,” said the old man.

“you have a good evening,” said the man who walked with a hobble.

“you too,” said the middle aged man.

The old man walked away, and the middle aged man followed him on the path by the rocks on the Eastern shore of the body of water.

The man had felt so chilled there as he waited there with the cats in their presence. He remembered the lyrics to a song, “God is hot and God is cold…” And he felt God in the coldness, as he began to shiver when the old man asked him, “are you okay?” a gentle old man feeding the cats. And this is how a miracle came to pass on that day.

The middle-aged-man made his way slowly back to the car, walking so slowly that the old man with the hobbled gait increased his distance between them. He finally found himself again in his car, sheltered from the wind and cold. He started the engine, turned up the heater, and navigated out of the parking lot and onto the Hefner Parkway.

As he drove North, the man remembered a prayer that he’d prayed at IHOP as he stood at the urinal in preparation for his trip back to his mother’s home for the night. “Make me the Christ,” said the man. “Make me the Christ.” 

As the man drove over the great arch which joined the Hefner parkway and the turnpike he prayed for healing. I want to see healing, God. I want to lay my hands on people and see them healed, a desire that had been restored in him, or rediscovered, or perhaps risen from a deeper level than before. It was a desire that he had known from his youth.

Eight years he’d worked in physical therapy with as honest a heart as he could express, phasing in and out with his compassion levels. Over and over again he’d allowed himself to become depleted. Today after meeting the old man, the gentle old man who fed the cats, his desire to become healing in this world was renewed. 

“Make us the Christ, God. Make us the Christ. Bring healing into this world.”



Day 16
4:54AM

The Good Doctor
Making Peace with the Doctor
Making Love with/to the Doctor

These were the questions that came to the writer as he allowed himself to fall in love with the mystery on the third day of the year two-thousand-and-twenty:

Where is the Universal thread in our lives? How do we tell our own Universal story? Maybe the question is this: Can we hear the Universal story being told as we watch our individual life unfolding? As we with-ness (Bayo Akomolafe) this unfolding of our individual life, can we experience a connectedness to the One, this connectedness that is our birthright?

The writer, once again, stood at the crossroads. He recalled, once again, that his very name spoke to him of the crossroads. And so this is where he stood, waiting at the crossroads for a path that was unseen before, trusting that the non-path would show itself. He waited for the miracle, once again.

The writer began to fear the meaningless that might come. “What if I can’t see the miracle today?” he thought to himself. “Am I feeling some kind of added pressure now that the Doctor has joined my audience?” he wondered.

For now he understood that his friend, the Doctor, would be listening. And he wondered if he could relate to the Universal doctor this morning. The writer wondered if the Doctor would ever make it this far into this journey with him. 

And so it came to pass that the nurturing adult, the one from the North spoke up just then in order to help the writer get some perspective. “Whether your friend, The Doctor ever gets this far in the book is inconsequential, and here is why: The Doctor sat with you last night. The Doctor played music with you. The Doctor listened to your stories and the Doctor gave you all the love and respect that you hope to receive from any human being. The Doctor has shown you that he is willing to hold you. So, whether or not this particular Doctor ever reads these words is inconsequential. This is the way it must be. This is why we are dedicating this chapter to the Universal Doctor, and not just the Doctor who is your friend. Does that help you any to continue with this chapter?” 

The writer was grateful to the one from the North and the wisdom that he carried. When the one from the North spoke, there was always care for the individual being, and care for the whole as well. And so it was with a new confidence, having heard from the North, that the writer continued doing what he did best. He wrote.

The writer knew that the Doctor was reading for the potential healing found in these words, for the Doctor was genuinely interested in the well-being of his patients, as the Universal Doctor naturally would be. The writer, this middle-aged man, knew that the Doctor cared for his patients because he had experienced the Doctor’s love personally.

Their friendship began many years ago in an eighth grade english class (it felt good now to the middle-aged-man to have a deep-time relationship with a Universal Doctor. The middle-aged-man could actually feel that the Universe was out to help him. Praise be to the Universe that births the Universal Doctor). 

Okay, back to the eighth grade English class (English is capitalized, btw). Yes, it was with a light heart now that the writer approached this subject (no, not the subject of English, the chapter about the Universal Doctor).

Really, back to the Doctor

It was always over music that the man and the Doctor came together. And so this was exactly how they met on that day that their mutual friend, Cad (who they would both eventually understand to be a Universal Teacher), played music for the whole school. And so the two boys came together in English class that day after Cad’s riveting guitar performance and they marveled at what they’d just witnessed. And it was in that moment that they joyously discovered the music in each other. They came to understand that they were both aspiring guitar players themselves. It was then that they realized, with excitement in their hearts, that they might start playing guitar together.

And so it came to pass that the two boys began having musical interactions. The boy who would one day become a Doctor invited the other boy over to his house. The Doctor’s father played guitar. And the boy who needed to be held found a holding in the Doctor’s family, for there was a kindness and an acceptance in this family, the likes of which the boy had never experienced in his own. The boy felt a certain kind of patience emanating from the Doctor’s father one day as he played guitar with the two boys. It was a patience and a kindness that the boy had never felt coming from a father. There was a confidence in kindness. There was Love in those hands. The Doctor’s father reminded the boy of Andy Griffith. The boy felt as if he had stepped into the unconditional love that Andy from Mayberry had for his son, Opie. The boy did not know that such a patience and wisdom existed outside of Mayberry, but there it was.

And the Doctor’s family invited him to go to Sooner football games, after which they bought him a meal at a home-style restaurant where it was tradition to heap butter and sorghum on the delicious giant biscuits that they served. The Doctor’s family also invited the boy, who was now growing into a young man, to participate in family game nights where they played pictionary with the Doctor’s Aunt and Uncle. It was at the Aunt and Uncles house that the Doctor and the young man ascended a spiral staircase to a loft, where the they listened to vinyl records and learned to play dual guitar parts to a John Denver song, Early Spring, Late Winter (When everybody goes to Mexico). And it was in that loft that the young man experienced the same patience in his peir that he’d experienced in the Doctor’s father. The Doctor showed the young man how to play the chords while he played the lead. And it was in this way that the Doctor, who was still a young was bringing healing into the world with his music. He was bringing healing into the heart of a hurting young man, a young man who still had a lifetime of hurting to attend to. And so it came to pass that the two young men lingered in he attic, together discovering the joy of playing music. It was an innately good experience.

For a time the young man and the Doctor were nearly always together after school. They were best friends. The Doctor, therefore, came into an intimate understanding of the suffering that lived and breathed within the walls of his friends home, for the Doctor also spent some time at the young man’s home.

The Doctor sat with the young man’s family one night at the dinner table, eating a meal that was lovingly prepared by the young man’s mother. The father became angry and turned the table over. The Doctor stood up to the father as he raged, in an attempt to relieve his friend of the suffering that so often crashed downhill in a landslide upon the young man. 

And so it went that the young man and the Doctor continued their friendship. The Doctor started a band in which he played the fiddle. The young man played the bass. The Doctor convinced the one they called “Cad” to play guitar in his country band, although Cad was not too much interested in country guitar. And there were six of them in that band, each of them a precious key to the healing process that music was bringing into the young man’s life. This was the band that would eventually be booed and ridiculed at the Diamond Ballroom. Praise be to the Spirit which indwells Music, the form which teaches us to receive praise and ridicule alike! Praise be to the band of young boys who come together to practice this form! Praise be to the Doctor who shook his fiddle stick in the direction of this band of young boys, the Universal One who brought them all together!

And it was in this way that the Doctor came to help the young man finally leave his father’s home after the father returned home from his military training, enraged and insane after his wife had left him. This was the father who blamed the young man for his own misery. This was the father who would continue to blame his son for his own misery, The father who would continue to attempt to control and humiliat his son with name-calling and insults. The father who turned over the table. The father who ripped the shower door off its hinges and screamed at the naked young man. The father who chased his son around the evergreen tree in the front yard with threat of violence. The day the young man left home.

It was on this day, the day that he’d been chased around the tree, that the young man accepted the help of his friend, the Universal Doctor. The Doctor helped the young man pack his bed, his clothing, and other essentials. The two young men worked as quickly as possible, hoping the father would not return during this exodus, for they knew that he would become violent. The father, thankfully, did not return as they packed. 
The Doctor invited the young man to live with him and their mutual friend, the lead singer in their highs chool band. And it was with his tall friend, the singer, the one who shared the same name as the young man’s brother, that the young man went grocery shopping for the first time, tossing boxes of macaroni-and-cheese, cereal, and milk into the squeaky shopping cart, feeling as if he’d just escaped a long nightmare in the leaving of his miserable and abusive father. And this is how it happened that the Doctor helped his young friend to escape.

Strangely enough, it was at this point that the young man and the Doctor drifted further apart. Although the Doctor shared his room, the young man was not a very thoughtful roomate. And  we know that this is how life often goes. We do not know why these things happen, but they do. It is relevant to say that there was now a deep and great suffering in the young man’s heart as he was trying to become an adult. He was lost and confused and hurting. It would get worse.

It is at this point in the story that the writer, once again, became aware that the Doctor may be listening. It is at this point in the story that the middle-aged-man becomes deeply aware of the pain that is still in him with the telling of this story. He becomes aware of the shame. He becomes aware of the stark difference between himself and the Doctor. He becomes aware of his own past, of his own inadequacies. In the context of the 12 step program, I guess one might call this a fourth-step-moment. The moment in a story where it becomes a “fearless and searching moral inventory.”

Yes, this writing had now become a lens through which to see witness the dysfunction of his own being as a young man. The writer watched as the writing became a confession of sorts. And he was grateful for that. He was grateful that he was getting this chance to admit to the Universal Doctor that he was not as good a friend as he would have liked to have been. In fact, there were many times where the young man had been resentful, uncaring, and hurtful. So there it was, the fifth step work of confession to ones’ self, to God, and to another human being of the deeds and words in one’s past that speak of anything less than Love.

For having left his father’s home, however unsavory the situation may have been, the boy had now become a man. The ceremony by which the man had left home was this: He was chased around a tree under threat of his life. And then, the Universal Doctor, brought his Ford Ranger over and helped the young man get out of an abusive household. That was the ceremony by which the young man majestically left home. And this is the ceremony that the middle-aged-man now accepts as the exact ceremony needed to move forward. Praise be to the father who gave his son the much needed push out of the nest.

So, the ceremony now completed, the boy had become a man. Unfortunately, the boy did not know how to be a man, and he acted accordingly. And this is the purpose of the fourth and fifth steps: that we are able to own, without shame, our own deeds and words. And the middle-aged-man was now ready to accept all of his actions that were less-than-Love. And in so doing he became willing to have God remove any character defects which may separate him from the Great Spirit. And then he asked God to remove these shortcoming. Praise be to the One Spirit who rises from within, eclipsing those fragmented aspects of our being that would continue to injure his loved ones otherwise.

The middle-aged-man knew how this worked. He had done it before. This chapter that he wished to devote to the Doctor had now become a step-working process. He moved on…

The middle-aged-man became willing to make amends to all those he’d injured. In this case it was the Doctor who the young man would be unable to appreciate. The very Doctor who the man would carry resentments for well into his adult life, not because the Doctor deserved these resentments, but because the man was unable to attend to the friendship. The man was unable to nurture and care for his friendship with the Universal Doctor. And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man continued in his healing process that day, using the tools that were provided to him by the One Life, the Universal Healing.

And so it came to pass that the writer now asked the Doctor, if he chose to ever read this far, for forgiveness. The middle-aged-man knew how it worked. He had seen it work before in his own being. “Dear Doctor, he said, please forgive me for my inability to tend to our friendship. Please forgive me for carrying resentments for you. I was a hurting human being and I was hurtful to you. Thank you for your valuable friendship. How can I make things right between us? What can I do to help?”

And it was in this way that the middle-aged-man continued his walk into freedom on that third day of January. It was in this way that the middle-aged-man cared for himself. It was in this way that, having encountered his own shame, he used the tools of the twelve step program to clean his own side of the street. For it was not his father that was responsible for cleaning the man’s street, it was the man himself. And so another miracle came to pass in the life of the middle-aged-man’s life. He was returning to his people, the people who had loved and cared for him, and he was trying to make things right. Praise be to the Bill W and the Universal Dr. Bob, the ones who crysallized the 12 steps in their current form! Praise be to the one who approaches step one, the step which can only be managed in absolute humility!

Amen 
Selah

Samuel Barber’s adagio for strings played in the headphones of the middle-aged-man. The image of the soldier on his knees in the movie, Platoon was in his mind. The man who reaches out for help. The one who needs assistance but who knows it is too late, for his comrades are airborne and out of harm’s way while he is left to die there on the ground amongst his enemies. He is forsaken. He is betrayed. He is abandoned. This is the image that came to the middle-aged-man as he continued this chapter in dedication to his friend, the Universal Doctor, The Doctor who listens to his patients, The Doctor who takes his time with each hurting soul. This is the Doctor that the middle-aged-man met in his youth, The Doctor who was now fully born into this hurting world. The Doctor who is a friend. The one who has answered the calling on his life. The one who passes on his calling to all whom he encounters.

It is only then, having done his step work and having acknowledged the Universal Doctor that had arisen within his childhood friend, that he is able to share the next bit. It was only then that he was able to share that which was before un-sharable. It was only after the step-work had been done and the acknowledgement of the risen Christ in his friend, that he could share the next part of the story. Yes, good Doctor, that is what I said, you are the risen Christ. You are the manifestation of the Universal Christ, the Cosmic Christ, the One. The Great Physician. You are blessed among men. This is what I see in you. This is who you are to me. I know you can accept this in all humility. In fact, you already have.

The writer now moved along with the telling of the story…

At his father’s house, just days ago, the middle-aged-man sat listening, bearing with-ness to the trauma that was working its way to the surface in this being (his father) who had once sheltered him and provided for him, as he also sheltered and provided for him on that day. The middle-aged-man came to be with his father. The son came like a hunter-gatherer, following the sustenance that life was providing for him. He came accepting of whatever gift life had to offer. He came in acceptance of the ceremony that his father provided for him, the ceremony in which the young man was chased around the tree, the ceremony in which his friend came in the Ford Ranger to help him remove his bed from the father’s house. 

It was with acceptance and gratefulness for everything that was that the middle-aged-man sat with his father that day, with-nessing the rising of his trauma to the surface. And it was as the trauma was rising that the father began to speak about the Good Doctor. The old man told how he had googled the Doctor’s name. He spoke of how he had listened to him speak of his passion for helping others. The old man, who had once turned a table over on the Doctor as the Doctor sat in intimate witness to the domestic violence, now had a deep and abiding respect for the Great Physician that he was seeing. 

And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man witnessed the love and respect that the father had for the Doctor. And it also came to pass that in the next moment the son heard his father tell him what a disappointment he had become. The father explained what a burden and disappointment it was that he was on medical leave again and what a shame it was that the son was neglecting his responsibilities to his family.

And this is how yet another previously undiscussed miracle came to pass. The miracle which was this: The son had no resentment toward either his father or the Doctor. The son, being grounded in the ONE SOURCE was able to witness the trauma that was rising from within his father and see it for exactly what it was. He knew suffering, because it was the very suffering that had plagued him for many many years of his adult life. He knew that the suffering that he saw in his father was the suffering that had been handed down for generation. It was the suffering caused by the trauma, the kind of trauma that actually changes our DNA in the phenomena describe by science as epigenetics. 

Because of the restoration that the son had been allowing to happen within himself, part of this process being that he was once again on medical leave, the son was able to continue thanking the father for all the gifts that he had been given. Because our Great Spirit was answering the prayer of restoration that was prayed for him by the gay black man at the psychiatric unit over a year ago, the son was able to witness the father’s suffering, and absorb his attacks without fighting back. It was in this way that the son also became the Christ who was crucified that day at his father’s house. 

And so it came to pass that the father crucified the Christ on that day and he acknowledged the risen Christ in the Doctor. And this is the miracle that the middle-aged-man accepted that day, knowing that the outcome of this miracle had much to do with whether his father had been able to purge enough trauma that day so that he could finally make a choice to stop blaming all those “others” in his life.

Could the father ever stop blaming his children for his suffering? Could the father ever stop blaming his wife and the mother of his children for his suffering? Could the father ever stop mocking the other? Would he find his way into the promised land, or was he bound to die wandering in the desert?

The son knew that these were all rhetorical questions. He was unable to save his father. The Doctor was unable to save his father. The writer paused at his work for a long moment. He pulled himself out from under the warmth of his covers where he sat leaning back bed. He lowered himself to the soft, carpeted floor. He allowed himself to become the water droplet. He communed with the wisdom found in the little droplet whose heart shone with the brightness of the sun. He allowed the water droplet to pray for his suffering father.

Selah

The water droplet knew no jealousy. He knew no anger. He knew no rage or fear. The water droplet only knew what it meant to be. He was willing. He was ready to evaporate. He was ready to sink into the soil. He saw his brothers and sisters in the stream just a short distance away and he knew that he was not separate from them. The water droplet saw the All in One and the One in the All. The water droplet was the stream. He was the soil. He was the thunderhead. He was the invisible evaporate. He was the rock. He was the sun which reflected within his own heart. He was the dynamic change, the evolution of consciousness. There was no separation in him. He was the One who was crucified. He was the One who was resurrected. He was infinitely deep. He was infinitely expanding. He was the Universe. He was the Multiverse. There was no story that was beyond him. There was no story that was too small for him to participate in. He simply was, and that was enough. There was no shame in him. There was no suffering. 

And this is the story of how the Doctor and the son worked together that day. This is the story of how the middle-aged-man and his father accepted the Life of the Doctor which lived in both of them. This is the story of the crucifixion of the Son. This is the story of the Great Physician, the resurrected One. This is the story of redemption. This is the song that was sung from the beginning. This is the story of how two young boys met in an eighth grade English class and started a band which nearly got booed off stage. This is the story of reconciliation between those two boys after they had grown apart. This is the story of the Patient (that one who comes to the Christ in need of being held and healed). This is the story of the Healer (the one who lays hands on the sick).

This is the story of how those roles are fluid. This is the story of how it’s not one way or the other. This is the story of how the great Patient brings healing to the Doctor. This is the story of how one role is no better than the other. And this is what the Doctor already knew. This is why the Doctor was trying so desperately to learn to listen to his Patients, because there was something in him that knew all of this. He knew that he had been honest in the answering of some greater call on his life, and his patients knew it to.

We are all engaged in this healing process. We are all watching the second coming of the Christ as he rises up from within us. And we know that it has very little to do with religion (although all forms have their place and serve their greater purpose). We have this innate sense that all the words and all the great forms and all the poems and all the yoga and all the separate fields of study are all pointing us toward the deepest reality. The One Reality. The Great I AM which is not limited to any particular canonized scripture.

This is what it means to spiral up, to die the death, to transcend reason, to become trans-rational, saying yes to reason while also integrating all other stages in the great spiral. This is what it means to become trans-personal, where the story of the Universe is seen in the story of one. This is what it means to be the Christ: The Universal story of death and resurrection expressed in that of the individual. Or, if need be, The Universal story of the seed that falls into the ground and dies that it may evolve into the being of the tree. Or, The Singularity which explodes into an ever-expading universe.

As we transcend the purely rational state, the state of being which we thought would surely deliver us from all the childish behavior, we incorporate into ourselves the entirety. We experience the Universe in ourselves and we Understand that which is out there to be a continuation of what we are experiencing internally.

And this is the blessing that I bring to you today, good Doctor. And this is the blessing that I bring to you also who is seeking healing. I present to you the continuum in which we all circle back to meet ourselves in one another. I present to you the snake which eats its own tail. I present to you the Mother and the Father in one being. I present to you the great fluidity, the wisdom of the water droplet an the majesty of the great thunderhead who also shines bright orange and white in the reflection of the setting sun. 

And so it came to pass that at 8:40 AM, as he sat in his mother’s home on medical leave, not earning a penny for himself, or for his children, or for the mother of his children, the writer continued the joyful process of closing this chapter. He continued in this glorious state in which he did not rely on his own righteousness to justify him. He continued moment after moment to accept the free gift of unconditional positive regard that Penny and so many others had given him over the years. He continued to acknowledge that free gift could only flow from the One Source. Neither he nor anyone else was capable of thinking that gift into existence. Although he saw it manifest in the Good Doctor, he understood that it was not the Doctor’s to possess. Although he saw the gift in himself, he understood that it was something that he must allow to pass through and then to come again. For he had witnessed himself trying to save his own life for so long, an effort that only resulted in the loss of his life. And it was only now, as he surrendered, as he said “yes” to the process of giving his life away that he was able to experience this freedom. 

For he had tried for so long to be the person that he knew he should be. He had tried for so long to be the person that the mother of his children thought he should be. He tried to be the person that his father thought he should be, and the person that he himself knew that he should be. He tried to whip himself into shape over and over again. He insisted of himself. He knew he could do better. He demanded from himself what he knew that he SHOULD be able to give. But he had failed. He had failed at being the husband that his wife needed. He had failed at being the father that his children needed. He failed at being the son that his father wanted. He had failed at his job time and time again as he found himself depleted and crying in his bosses office. He had failed in his faithfulness to the God of his youth. He had failed in his musical career. He watched himself fail so many times as a friend. He was not strong enough. He was not stable enough. He was not good enough, not even by his own standards. Yes, he was even unable to set his own bar and measure up to his own standards. And so he had utterly failed on all possible levels that he could understand as he sat cross-legged on his mothers spare bed. Or as he lived rent free in his friend Dan’s house in New Mexico. The failure that his father accused him of being was a reality.

So, what was his inheritance then? If the father had no blessing for him? If the father could not hold him or even stand for him to be in his home? What then, was the middle-aged-man’s inheritance.

His inheritance was the wisdom of the water droplet. His inheritance was the treasure that he had found in the field. The treasure that he had buried again and in his excitement at his discovery he sold all that he had and bought the field. His inheritance was in his heart to see healing in himself and to share that healing with the world. His inheritance was the friendship that was now being offered to him from a well that was flowing from an infinite depth within his being. His inheritance was the Christ that was rising up in him. His inheritance was in the evolving consciousness that had become more than a story. His inheritance was in the snake he’d seen when he took the “lethal dose” of mushrooms. His inheritance was the tree goddess. His inheritance was in the mother cougar and the wooly mammoth, and the tadpole. His inheritance was in Lucy, his deep primal mother, the Australopithecus primordial eve. His inheritance was in the singularity. It was in the breathing in and the breathing out. His inheritnace was in the infinitely simple yet somehow insanely impossible act of true self-acceptance—a self-acceptance that was free from any self-justification—self acceptance that was free from any self-righteousness. His inheritance was in the blessing that his father had no power to take away from him. His inheritance was right there at the center of his being, that which nothing or no one could rob from him. His inheritance was in the peace that he had searched for all his life in which he now found himself hopelessly immersed. His inheritance was in knowing that whatever was happening right now was just for now. His inheritance was that he did not feel compelled to make any promises, or blood oaths. His inheritance was in that, in this moment he found himself to be his own best friend. His inheritance was in the very breath he was drawing in that moment, the strawberry that Pema had showed him years ago. His inheritance was in the tigers above him, and in the tigers below. It was also in the mice that were chewing on his vine as this was the day that he was legally obligated to give his wife child support which he did not have enough of. His inheritance was in the possibility that his children’s cars might be repossessed. His inheritance was in the ceremony that his father gave him upon leaving home. His inheritance was in the curses that he’d spoken over the mother of his children the day before. His inheritance was in the relationship with his son-in-lay in which they communed around the great medicine. His inheritance was in everything that was. His inheritance was in the waiting at the crossroads. It was in the non-path. His inheritance was in the simultaneous holding of the suffering and the joy. His inheritance was in the moment to moment walking out of every step that he took.  His inheritance was in the fabric that he found to be supporting him in this moment. It was in the feral cats at the lake as the sun was setting. It was in the hobbled man who cared for the feral cats. It was in the moments of fearful meaninglessness. It was in the roll of quarters that his father gave him to navigate the turnpike. It was in the one-hundred dollar bill that his mother laid on the dresser that once held his father’s playboy magazines. It was in the violence that he’d once perpetrated on innocent animals and the daughter that put her hands on her hips and commanded him to stop. His inheritance was in the fundamental logic that lead him to love his enemy, Satan. His inheritance was in the clam chowder and the oyster crackers that his mother made on New Years day. His inheritance was in the music that he’d made with the Doctor last night.

Yes, the Great Physician that had visited him last night. The one with which he’d shared the joy of his salvation. The one who listened so that he could help his patients find healing. Yes, good Doctor, it is for their healing and ours that we find ourselves here now, engaged in these words. It is by these words, which have been constructed as an altar, that we find ourselves answering this calling on our lives. It is here that we say “yes” to that which we have already said “yes” to a thousand times. It is here that we surrender, finally, to that which has always held us. It is here that we fully understand the impetus behind all the world religions. It is here where the History of God is made clear. It is from here where your own book is written, the one which will outline the Universal nature of God’s reality despite the shortcomings of all religion.

This is the path that no one can walk away from without denying his own humanity. The path on which we discover our own divine identity, as you already have, Good Doctor. This is where the fruits of the seeds of love you have sown are delivered to you so that you may host the big party. This is where you accept only that which is real from all the greatest stories that you have ever heard. 

This is only that which you have already seen is inevitable. This is only the truth that you already know to be true within yourself. This is the reality which never demands obedience. This is the reality that dies on a cross for its brother. The mature “Paji,” if the rest of the audience will allow me to make an inside reference (please excuse my indulgence dear reader, but this chapter, after all, is dedicated to the Doctor. Yes, the Universal Doctor, but the Universal which is imbedded in an individual. So thank you for your forgiveness, dear reader).

And this Universal Doctor is also, of course, dedicated to the Universal Patient. He is dedicated to all those “others” who may still be reading, but who hopefully, as this chapter slowly comes to an end, are convinced that the Universal Doctor also lives in them.

It was in this way that the impossibly talented writer wrote a love letter to his old friend while also summoning the Universal Doctor in all of us. It was in this way that the miracle came to pass. It was in this way that the writer found his own healing that day. It was in this way that the writer was held. It was in this way that the writer hoped that you, dear reader, were also experiencing the same holding. It was in this way that the writer finally finished the chapter.

Praise be to the One who holds us all. 

Amen
Selah


Day 16
12:05PM

The connection between boredom and meaninglessness

A new foundation for living and being in this world is being established

Lesson 14
“God did not create a meaningless world”

What love did not create does not exist

Love is the only power there is

1 minute x 3 …..God did not create________and therfore it is not real

God did not create a meaningless world

Day 16
1:24PM

The writer sat on a park bench at the zoo. A young family of four passed him with a stroller.
“Did you know ostriches are from the desert?” said the mother to her six year old daughter.

A helicopter helicoptered in the distance.
A bushy tailed squirrel foraged in the dry brown leaves.

The zoo was a place where the man might become nostalgic. He hadn’t realized that as he decided to come. He only felt joy in his heart as the idea formed in his being.

Green ivy clung to brittle deciduous trees.
A single bird called in the distance.
Children cried loudly to their parents.

“we need to find the turtle that we always take your picture on.” Said a young parent, “Jackie do you need to pottie, because if you do we need to do it, because there’s a bathroom right here. Say cheese! One, two, three, cheese!”
“The ostrich is over there Daddy! Right over there,” proclaimed a little boy.

The writer laid down on a bench, using his laptop bag as a pillow and took a timeless nap. “how long was I sleeping?” He wondered.

The memory of his father’s attack of two days ago still lingered with him. “How many times has that happened?” the writer wondered.

Another family of four passed by—a little girl wearing a pink jacket with a back bow in her hair caught a ride in the stroller. A little boy in a blue, hooded jacket ran along side.

“I wanna seee the Rhinos!” cried a boy.
We’re not seeing Rhinos,” shouted another.
“Guys, heres an ostrich, do you see the ostrich?” asked a passing mother.

The writer had yet to see the ostrich. He turned to look for the ostrich. It was not in his line of sight.

“Over here’s an ostrich!” the mother called to her brood.

A little boy in a green jacket was crying. His sister put his arm around his shoulder.

“I wanna see a Rhino!” humphed the little boy who wanted to see a Rhino.

A woman in stretchy pants and a headband pushed a stroller up the hill. Her hair was a black fountain on top of her head.”

“I wanna get on that elephant!” cried a boy.
“Me too! I wanna get on that elephant too.”

“Is it true what the course in miracles says, that there is no size difference in miracles,” the writer wondered. 

“I’m riding Dumbo! I’m riding Dumbo!” shouted a boy in an orange coat.
“Are you ready to go?” asked the Dad.

A brown squirrel climbed down a tree trunk.

When the writer came to the zoo alone, his thoughts gravitated toward freedom and captivity. Today it was the galapagos turtle that started it. The writer was careful to not anthropomorphize the lovely girl, that ancient reptile who, for some unknow reason, plodded from one end of the indoor enclosure to the other. “Where is she going?” asked the writer. “Why is she going? How does she process her situation here? Is there something in her that is aware of her captivity? Her front leg moved first, then the opposite back leg began its forward motion before the front was finished. Then the mirror image happened with the other two legs. It appeared to be a lot of work. The writer’s sense seemed to be confirmed when she collapsed half-way to where the writer imagined was her destination. After several minutes, the writers assumption was confirmed when she resumed her contralateral movement across the smooth floor.

The writer was glad that he was not compelled to assume that she was miserable in her captivity. He considered the possibility that she may be completely content in her current environment.

“No sticking your tongue out!” shouted a mother, “Hold on. Stand right there. I’m too far away. Stand still. No sticking your tongue out. 1 2…”
“Take the picture, mom,” said the woman’s daughter.

The crispy leaves that remained in the trees quivered and sang a winter song as the wind gusted. Traffic made sounds like a mechanized ocean from the streets outside the zoo fences. A jay called shrilly from up above, warning a squirrel that was perched directly above the writers head.

“This would be the place to do it,” shouted a mother.

“This time it’s Christmas!” yelled an excited girl as she ran for the elephant sculpture.

A brown squirrel ran for the trees as a group of children approahed.

“You scared ‘em!” cried one of the boys, searching for the squirrel.

“We gotta go, Grace,” commanded a mother in  a blue sweatshirt.

The writers finger became cold and stiff over the keys on his laptop. “God is hot and God is cold,” he thought to himself.

The miracles never ceased.

The writer wondered if his father would show himself soon.

“That’s why you stay on the path,” said a mother in a slick purple jacket, “That’s why you stay on the path. Come on, Sawyer or we’re not going to have much time at the park.”

Day 16
2:35PM

The writer found himself in sitting by the inddoor orangutan enclosure. Seven thick logs were arranged and bolted together in such a way as to provide the long-haired primates with maximum climbing opportunity. A thickly woven canvas cradle was lashed to several of the logs. Two orangutans were inside. One hulking girl who rocked with her back to the observers, and another young one with a Beatles haircut who paced the perimeter.

Just then the middle-aged-man spotted a silver back lowland gorilla in a separate outdoor enclosure. There was also a juvenile, and a much younger child with him too.

The gorillas roamed about for a a short while and then disappeared around the corner of the enclosure. The writer moved from the orangutans and set up camp in the sunlight patiently awaitin another opportunity to sense the presence of these massive, noble creatures. A human toddler vocalized strangely primal sounds of distress somewhere on the other side of the echoing building. The tone of the toddler’s cries transformed in tone, as if maybe he’d been given what he wanted. The distress calls quickly transmuted into an obviously satisfied vocalization. Then, just as suddenly, his distress cries returned with the same intesity as before. The sun warmed the writers face as he sat waiting for the glory of the silverback to return.

Reverence is what the middle-aged-man was feeling for the animals today at the zoo. Earlier, he’d answered a tiger’s call. A crowd of people were gathered there when he arrived at the cage. The young male was moaning. He appeared discontent somehow. “What does he want,” the man asked himself. 

Children laughed at his noises. The tiger rose from his position on his stomach and walked around his cage. The frequency of his bellowing increased. As he entered his indoor enclosure his roars were amplified through a megaphone of man-made rock. The moans stopped momentarily as he disappered into his cave. The middle-aged-man waited patiently as if he were waiting for Moses to come back down from the mountain with a message from God

The crowd dissipated. Then the moans resumed. They grew in intensity as he emerged from the tunnel. The man’s reverence was intensified as the amplified roars from the tunned evoked a primal fear within him. He wondered if the laughter and the mocking comments that he heard from some of the observers was merely masking their fear. 

Just then, a seven-year-old boy wearing a black fleece jacket exhibited a response that seemed appropriate. He shook with fear and ran for the refuge of a nearby adult. The large woman tried to explain how he shouldn’t be scared because the tiger was in a cage. Then she looked at the middle-aged-man and apologized for her grandson’s behavior. “He probably ruined it for you didn’t he?” 

“No,” thought the middle-aged-man, “seemed just about right to me. That’s what the little boy in me was doing too.”

In his early twenties, the young man had a similar experience with a tiger at the zoo in which he sensed his restlessness as he watched him pace back and forth in a small section of his enclosure. He wrote a poem which he could now only remember in part.

“Angry old man tiger
Orange and black
Stripe-ed boredom”

In connection with his ACIM readings, the writer was considering a possible connection between boredom and meaninglessness. “Is boredom something that happens when we are unable to sense any meaning?” he pondered, “And if so, what is an appropriate response to our relationship with the sense of meaninglessness? If it is true, as ACIM states that ‘God did not creat a meaningless world,’ then what is the appropriate response as one is unable to connect with the innate meaning? Just because there is meaning doesn’t mean that we are always going to sense meaning, does it? If I can’t sense any meaning does that necessarily indicate that I am out of touch with the divine. Impossibly difficult questions like these were part of the reason why, years ago, he had decided to start ‘Edging God Out (EGO).”

It was not a stretch for the writer to imagine that the Tiger in that cage was having a difficult time finding an appropriate expression for his natural wildness. It seemed that his bellowing must be an indication of some kind of search, that he must be bellowing about something, or for something or someone (another tiger perhaps?). 

But in this cage how could his needs be met? The writer was still making an effort to avoid projecting his human consciousness on to the tiger, but it did appear that the roars were a call for something (some unmet need?). There was a very real restlessness, was there not? Given, his restlessness may not be a human restlessness, but it seemed to the writer that there was indeed a restlessness present. 

He had learned from the feral cats that day on the porch during his LSD trip that he was not accurate in the reading of feline emotions, however he had only misread the brand of their emotion, he had not placed emotion where there had been none. The writer assumed that the feral cats were condescending toward Eli because of his domesticity, but what they were really exhibiting toward the dominant cat was caution. They were on guard, because at any moment, they knew that Eli’s dominance may manifest itself toward them. Eli, the big cat.

So the writer felt safe enough to assume that some kind of restlessness was present in the tiger, although he could not be for sure what brand. And possibly, it was not the relatively small enclosure that produced the massive cat’s restlessness. Maybe the same restlessness would occur in the wild. However, in the wild the tiger was free to wander in search of the relief for whatever his longing was. Here, in this cage, he would only meet the faces of nervously laughing children, which did not seem to be currently satisfying this young male tiger with the big big balls protruding from behind his tail.

The writer acknowledged the southern nature. He looked to the wild-indigenous one. Is this who he was encountering in himself as he revered the tiger? Was he witnessing an expression of this wild-one who was trying to find a way to have his needs met? Is this why he was growing his beard? 

If there was anything true about Bill Plotkin’s mapping of the human psyche in the four cardinal directions, then it was essential that all four aspects of the human psyche were nurtured. Is this what the writer had been encountering all of his life as he went by himself to the zoo, as his thoughts gravitated toward freedom and captivity? Was he trying to make peace with his southern nature. And was it the writer’s southern nature that was truly the weakest in him?

The silverback and his companions returned. There were four of them now. The silverack took a poition in front of the display glass. He sat, looking up into the space above the observers as they stood behind the thick and expansive glass. Then pieces of food were tossed by some unseen hand from above. One by one, the gorilla fielded the morsels like an experienced short-stop who ate his baseballs. The four-hundred-pound gorilla waited like such a good boy for every piece of food. He always caught them in mid air. They went straight to his mouth. The other gorillas gave him ample room, they knew it was not their turn.

It was then that the writer looked down and he saw ants crawling on the other side of the glass, inside the enclosure with the gorillas. He watched the ants crawling over blades of grass and rocks, and over dirt. Then he noticed that there were also ants on his side of the glass. This seemed curious to him. These ants looked the same as each other, the ants within the enclosure, and the ants outside the enclosure. The writer imagined that they were most likely from the same colony. Yet some were inside the enclosure and some were outside the enclosure. 

He wondered what the path was for the ant who needed to get from one side to the other. Certainly, it was a much longer journey than the distance that separated the brothers and sisters just then. All the other humans were engrossed in the activities of the gorillas. But the writer sat in the warm sunlight observing the ants, absorbed in the implications of captivity, wondering what the journey was like from one side of the glass to the other.

Day 16
5:11

And so it came to pass that the second of the two mountains which inhabit this story came into the writer’s vision. But, he was brought first, back to the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. The cabin in the forest where he had the vision of the Christ Moth. The cabin in which he had integrated the religious form of his youth, the form which he had been unable to return to, but now came back to him in a Cosmic, integrated fashion. The cabin in which he heaved and sobbed with great tears as he held on to a teddy bear still only half-born from a log as he chanted desperately, “You are a strong bear, a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear.” This was the cabin in which he had made a deeper peace with his heavenly Father, his own father, and also himself as a father. The cabin in which he was able to accept that about himself what was before unacceptable. The cabin in which he was able to consume the two six dollar pastries that, just the night before, could only bring him shame. The cabin where his sorrow and shame had been transmuted into deep love and acceptance. The cabin in which he had first made a simple call for acknowledged in this one word with a question mark afterward:

“Father?”

And then afterward, after the call for acknowledgement, he had discovered the power of the silence between the call and the response. It was there at the cabin that he felt the presence of the father within him in that space after the call was made. And then, the gentle friendliness of the father’s response as he simply acknowledges the son:

“Yes, son?”

It was this connection that he had made with the Father that night at the cabin whih sustained him recently as he subjected himself, just two days before, to what in the past would have been a devastating attack from his earthly father. As his father expressed his ultimate disappointment in the son’s weakness. As the father accused him of stealing his cell phone. As the father told his son that he was afraid that the son would murder him, when it was only the father who had told his son of his desire to put a bullet in his head and also into the head of the woman who bore his two sons. 

Without this affirmation from his heavenly father that he’d received at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest, the son would not be standing today, he was certain of that. Even with the affirmation from his heavenly Father, there had been times when the son felt fearful that he would not be able to recover again from such a blow, that he would surely contract and then crumble like a brittle statue.

And that next morning, before he would sit to enjoy the pastry that his father would have loved, if you recall, dear reader, the man went for a walk. And on that walk he sang kumbaya. “Someones singing, my Lord. Kumbaya”
“Someone’s crying, my Lord. Kumbaya”
“Someone’s dying, my Lord, Kumbaya”

And then the camoflauged dog ran at him from across the field barking madly. And the son simply stopped the dog in its tracks with  just a couple of appropriately forceful syllables. The dog turned sideways as if he’d encountered an impenetrable wall. And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man simply went on his way, resuming his song, resuming his prayer. “Come by here, my Lord. Come by here,” A simple camp song that held all the power that was needed for the moment.

And this all came to pass even before man started documenting this journey sixteen days ago. And it was sixteen days ago that the distress call went out, because documentation of this journey was apparently necessary, if for no one else but the middle-aged-man. But it was in this interaction with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) that the writer began to find his heart for you, Dear reader. And you, my beloved reader, have witnessed the birth of a voice as you have accompanied him on this journey. And hopefully, my dear reader, you have witnessed just enough the death of the author that you have also experienced a salvation of your very own. That is what the writer now hoped. He hoped that you, dear one, have found something much greater than these words can contain as you have accompanied him on the journey that is now documented in the pages of this, dare I say, book?

The book that the writer knew would be impossible to write. The miracle that the non-theist former Buddhist monk asked from this dying author. Praise be to the Buddha and also to the who cuts his throat on the road when he meets him! 

Dear reader, have you seen your own Universal journey in the journey of this middle-aged-man. This was the writer’s hope as he began the last leg of this process. This was his hope, that as you followe him along this path, that you too have been waking to a deeper reality. That you have somehow benefitted from the tranparency and trust that have been given as a gift today to this writer. This writer who has no income. This writer who lost all that he said that he held dear. This writer who broke all the promises that he ever made so that he could find the promise that could only come from inside himself.

Dear reader, please take a moment to rejoice with this writer who has come to treasure your company. Please take a moment to feel the gratitude of this writer, who for a brief moment was able to transcend the boundaries of space and time and speak with you right where you sit. Please, dear reader, will you take a moment and sense the gratitude that the writer feels for you now as he is in communion with you.

We stand now, dear reader, at this crossroads together, this unnamed writer, this anonymous soul. We stand now together, unsure of what exactly is to come, but somehow sure that there is a deeper reality than what we have been presented to us. For those of us who have not been held as we needed. For those of us in need of healing. For those of us who are in need of a great physician. I say, “yes.” I say, “yes” to you and I ask you to accompany me for the rest of the way. For we have come so far together. I have cried with you. I have cried for you. We have wept together, my dear reader. Please, I ask that you stay with me for a little while longer. Let us discover whatever there may be left to uncover. Let us together, find this treasure. Let us together, buy that field.

“Father?”
“Yes, Son?”
“Can I climb that mountain?”
“You can try, Son. You can try. Lets climb it together, one step at a time”

Day 16
6:07 PM

Dear reader, you have seen me. You have seen my suffering. You have seen my joy. I have shown you my rage. I have not told you everything, but I have given you enough to know that I am fully human, and that I am also divine. I ask for you now to give yourself to my company. Please add yourself to this journey as I communicate with you now across the bounds that we are actually not obligated to be bound by.

For if these words resounded with you, and you have come this far, you know that you were also with me in the writing of these words. We know that you were also working out your own salvation with fear and trembling. This is what we know together. Know that we have been working this out together. You are not alone, dear Reader. You are not alone.

We have discovered this voice together, as a result of the trusting work that we have all been up to.

Day 17
12:29AM

The man often woke now with a vsion
Of a universal screen before him
Universal fingers
Curleed over a universal 
Home row
Universal words 
on Universal lips
never quite captured
As he lingered there 
between
Sleeping ad wakefulness

It was after midnight. He’d been asleep for four hours. He awoke with the inspiration that he had hoped for, the inspiration that he needed to take one more step toward the story of the second mountain. His left wrist had begun slightly aching these last couple of days. He assumed his southerly facing position in front of the mirror at his mother’s house with the beveled edge where he could only see the bottom half of his face, his great unkempt beard (which his mother, by the way, hated!) encouraging him with every turn of every miracle. It was eight hours until he was scheduled to leave to Kansas to visit his last living grandparent, his mother’s mother, the one who bore the Universal G-lo (Glow). 

His Grandmother, the woman who’d sang to him “Close To You” by the Carpenters when he was a little boy. The woman who’d fed him lobsters and Colorado cherries and Hollandaise eggs. The woman who expressed her love in the food that she prepared. It was his aging grandmother that he’d wished to see, and so he asked his mother if she would take him to see her. And his mother, The Universal G-lo, had agreed to leave on Saturday morning so they could take her to lunch.

The writer now found himself at a crossroads, There was his Grandmother and the family that she represented. And there was the mountain, the second mountain of this story, the large pile of rocks just outside of the Lincoln National Forest. He stood at the Crossroads. Or rather, he sat at the crossroads in half-lotus position after he took three pillows off of his bed and stacked them by the bed. He did not want to approach the mountain before its time, dear reader. He did not want to abort anything else that may be between him and the mountain. 

So He made himself an offering. He presented himself as an offering. He presented himself as an offering to Life as he sat there in acknowledgment of his vipassana practice, in acknowledgement of the breath of God, the Universal Breath of life, that name of Spirit that was beyond all names, the name that could not be spoken.

It was the Owl Woman, the owner of the Universal Cabin in the Great Forest whom he had first told the story of the Moth. No, actually, he recalled now, it was her mate, The Universal Stan, the One who brings Us all together whom he first shared the story of the Moth. But it was with the Owl Woman, whom he’d first shared the story with emotion.

The three of them sat in communion, breaking bread in Cloudcroft, that quaint little town nestled in the forest where the gravel streets wound up the mountain face. The middle-aged man wondered how difficult it must be to navigate these streets after a hard snow in the winter. 

It was the next day, early in the afternoon, the day after he’d had the vision of the Universal Christ in the moth. The vision, induced by the medicine he’d taken the afternoon before as he took refuge in the Owl Woman’s lodge. He sat with the Owl Woman and the Universa Stan at a café in this Universal Town in the mountain valley. It was here that the middle-aged-man he’d first shared his vision of the Moth with his friends. It was in this town that he bought Christmas presents for his children, mittens with removable fingers, and totem animals carved from marbled stone.

The Owl Woman had just acquired another home in her little mountain community. The new home, the place where she and the Universal Stan would retire, was a beautifully unique structure with a soul of its own. It stood on a South facing Slope which was a good thing as she did not wish the snow to linger on her steps in the winter. There were no parallel walls in the living area of the home, an intentional architectural choice that gave the home a flow, and the spirit of the Great Architect dwelt there within its walls. After the Owl Woman gave the middle-aged man a tour of the entire home, including the back yard which opened itself freely to the Northern Wilderness, they made their way down the mountain (the owl woman walked, the two men drove because of Stan’s hips) to find lunch in the café.

The three of them sat together that early afternoon. They shared a Universal meal, The middle-aged-man filled up his little blue Universal car with gas. He purchased his Universal Children some Universal gifts and then he returned, alone, to the Universal Cabin in the woods. It was there that he faced the stillness without the medicine. A night by himself in the stillness of the cabin. 

He went to bed early, hoping to sleep through the night. When he woke later, he did not consult his cell phone for the time. Instead he asked the Great Spirit, “What time is it,” a question that had been born the night before after he’d ingested the medicine. A question that came before “Father?” 

“What time is it?” a Universal question. One that is asked before consulting a watch or a cell phone for the time. A question that leaves space for an answer. A question whose purpose was to leave space for stillness and myster after the asking. And the question did just that as the long long night stretched out before the middle-aged-man. 

The man prayed for the lasting strength of the visions that he’d seen. The man gave thanks to his Father. The man longed to make peace with his earthly father. The man wrote an email to Harbor Dave with the first written version of the story of the moth, this was just days before the initial distress call went out to Muse Harbor, just days before the beginning of this project which you and I now rest in, dear reader. 

As the long night in the cabin wore on, the man did all things in acknowledgement of the great gift that he received in the vision of the Christ Moth. He took a warm bath. He went upstairs, walking into the dark upper chamber without turning on the light, an uncomfortable experience in unfamiliar territory. He played his guitar and his mandolin. He sang. He read his bible. He prayed. He journaled. He clothed himself in his hooded olive jacket--the one that was beginning to feel so much like home--and he put on his yellow elk skin gloves (Praise be to Her!). He went outside into the cold moonlight. He sat on the front porch in a deck chair, waiting on the Lord.

After all this business was complete he was bored. He was facing the great meaninglessness. He opened his phone and began thumbing through all the pictures of the last three years of his life. His final family vacation to Hawaii with his children and their mother. A solar eclipse. The selfies that his daughter loved to secretly implant in his phone, once she learned his security code. And then there was the woman from Bermuda. Dozens and Dozens of pictures of the woman from Bermuda. He became lost in their love affair. He felt her. He wanted her. He became her. He relived the gift of that passionate love affair, and then he consumated it with her image in his mind. Then he fell asleep.

The earth rotated on its axis. The first light of the sun began to seep into the sky between the trees. Finally, he could see the blue light through the East Window of that two story cabin in the woods. Praises be to God! He could finally see the light after that long lonely night!

The man rose with regret in his heart for having used the image of the woman for his own selfish pleasure. “Am I falling back into some kind of religious guilt?” he wondered as a song from his past was revived in his heart:

Create in me a clean heart, Oh God
And renew a right spirit within me
Cast me not away from your presence, Oh God
Take not thine holy spirit from me
Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation
And renew a right spirit within me

He considered the words of this song. “I love the idea of God creating in me a clean heart. And I’m all for this ‘renewing of a right-spirit,’ but what’s the deal with this begging of God not to ‘cast me away,’ what the fuck’s up with that? Is that what this has come back to? Am I once again begging God not to punish me? Uggh.”

And so it went that the integration process continued as he went on with his business. The integration of that which is usable and the casting off of that which is not. His AA family said it like this: “take what you can use and leave the rest.” The man simply loved that about AA. The people in those rooms and the 12 steps that they used had empowered him to trust a God of his own understanding. And today, The man did not understand God to be a Presence that cast anything or anyone away. The God of this man’s understanding was not one who ‘takes away his spirit’ from anyone. 

And so it went that the man sensed what was right for himself. On that day he was not comfortable in the pulling off of his own reproductive organ using the image of a woman whom he was not in relationship with. It was that simple. And he accepted that about himself. And he judged no one else for their personal choices. And their didn’t have to be any shame or fear that God would withdraw His presence because of a simple jerking-off. “The only one who can separate me from God’s presence is me,” said the man to the friendly bear. “And by the way,” said the man to the bear, “You are a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear!” And once again the man felt the strength coming back into his own being. “I am the only one who can separate myself from God!” He pronounced to the friendly cabin in the forest. “This is the very nature of the Universal Christ. The arms of Christ are always wide open. Any separation that I experience is simply because I have decided that I can’t live with myself. My own guilt and shame separate me from God, so it really does have everything to do with the question, ‘can I live with myself?’ Now, if I do something that I can’t live with, then there is a problem, and I better find a way to live with myself. I better find a way to invite Presence into my situation so that I can live with myself. And it is the unrevokabe Presence that allows me to live with myself in the first place.” The man allowed this personal revelation to set him free. The man had lived many years not understanding how his own ego was preventing him from experiencing the Presence. “Is this why the Christ Child called Jimi Hendrix asked that question to him so many years ago? ‘are you experienced’” The man was experiencing the Christ in everything and everyone. Jimi Hendrix, the Christ Child who drowned in his own vomit, how’s that for a salvation story? The one who died so that we all may live. Praise be to the Great Noel Redding and the Great Mitch Mitchell who held Jimi for as long as they could. Jimi Hendrix, the man who just wanted to be held. Amen and Selah .

As the sun rose the man began to gather his things which had been spread all over the cabin. He retrieved some tuna packets from his backpack in the car. He gratefully ate and gave thanks to the Tuna, the hands that caught her, and the One who brought them together. He finished the rest of the cinnamon roll that he thought he would never be able to eat because of the unacceptable shame that he’d carried in his heart just the night before hours before—The shame that was dissolved when the Great Father came to hold him. The shame that dissolved as he strength that he acknowledged in the carved, wooden bear seemed to fill his own heart. “You are a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear.” He’d proclaimed over and over again to the bear with the piercing eyes which had awoken his heart. And afterwards, that was when the Father had appeared to him in the depths of his own strong-bear heart.

He gathered his books and his journal. He gathered the framed photograph of the many open doors that was given to him by Arlene, another Universal Mother. He folded his clothes. He folded all of the blankets that had kept him warm, including the red fleece blanket on which he had witnessed the journey of the Christ Moth. He gathered his children’s Christmas presents. He stacked all these items by the door in preparation for his departure. 

Then, he gathered his instruments, but not before recording the two songs that had been sustaining him during this time (The Eye of the Hurricane and I Give Myself Away). He recorded those songs in the presence of the other strong bears who inhabited the cabin. He recorded those songs in the presence of the Owl. He recorded those songs in acknowledgment of the support that he’d received from Bruce Sanguin, the mystic, christian clergyman who had allowed his life to be dismantled by the Spirit in the medicine. The middle-aged-man recorded those two songs in recognition of the gifts that he’d received in his two nights at the cabin. He recorded those songs in recognition of all the gifts that he’d received in his whole life that had brought him to this point. This healing point. Praise be to the One who gives all good gifts and turns our heart toward those gifts that we were once unable to see as good. Praise be to God, whose goodness cannot be exaggerated.

As he packed transferred his things from the cabin into the car he became deeply aware that his was a story of grace and acceptance. He recalled one of the ceremonies of two nights before: As the Great Wisdom rose from within he face the West. He held his arms out and felt himself as the Christ hanging on the cross. His arms were open wide, just as he’d witnessed his friend, the man who’d baptized him just the weekend before hold his arms open as he sang. The man held this open-armed postion for as long as he was able. It was not an act of asceticism, it was an act of love, an act of saying “yes” to an acknowledging all the suffering that ever was, all the suffering that he’d ever known personally, all the suffering that was to surely come. It was an acknowledgement that he was not alone in his suffering. That there was One who had suffered before him, One who was able, by the Spirit to willingly give himself to the suffering. An example of Surrender. An example of courage. This One, the man now acknowledged in his being. He acknowledged the presence of this One. This Christ. The annointed One. The One who had brought him salvation so many years ago. The One who came to him within the context of a limited form. The One who had drawn him deeper, past the all the forms that had been unable to hold him. And this form, that he held, this form of the cross was an exercise, testing his muscles and showing him how to joyfully exert himself. This ceremony was a kind of Christ-Yoga, if you will. And that night, after he’d received the medicine into his body, he was saying yes to the Yoga of the cross as he joyfully strained his muscles in the holding of this position. He remembered, once again, the prayer of his youth.

I want to know the Christ
The power of his resurrection
The fellowship of sharing in his suffering
Becoming like him in his death
And so somehow to achieve (receive)
A resurrection from the dead 

Day 17
3:22AM

How will you hold me
When the pain comes like this?
She looked me in the eyes and betrayed me with a kiss

She said, “You cannot walk on water”
With a tongue sharp to kill
But in the eye of the hurricane
You are always still

The middle-aged-man packed his little blue toyota. The windshield had large cracks running all through it where his youngest daughter (pure healing) had nearly pushed it out with her legs as she ceased. That afternoon, on their way back from Lubbock, Texas she went unconscious as they drove west on highway eighty-four. It was her second seizure of the day. The first one happened in the parking lot at the mall. She phased out mid-sentence as she was telling her father a joke, her eyes traced an arc along the inside ceiling of the car. Her father thought it was part of the joke, but it was not. His daughter began shaking. Bubbling saliva came from her mouth. She stopped breathing. As the father cradled her in his arms, she was turning blue. He spoke to her calmly. “Breathe baby, breath. It’s time to breathe, baby.” And then she did breathe. 

They sat there in the parking lot, the two of them. She not knowing where she was, or who she was. The father, with tears in his eyes and love in his heart. He had never seen one of these before. He had never been present as she ceased. But he was present that day. A presence arose from him, the likes of which he had never known before. The presence of a father as his daughter’s life appeared to be passing away right before him. He spoke to his daughter as she recovered from this violent occurrence in her being. He spoke to her as she recovered from the lightning that had struck so forcefully in her brain, rendering her unconscious, gripped by an un-fightable force.

She came to. She knew who she was. They continued their day. The father took her to get her belly button pierced. And three hours later, as they travelled East on eighty-four, it happended again. He convers were propped on the windshield when the lightning struck again. She stiffened like a board. The window cracked under the pressure that her wooden legs exerted on the glass. The father pulled over on the side of the road. The windshield shifted an bulged. Large stars were birthed under each of her shoes.

When she finally relaxed, the father was able to remove her feet from the windshield. He held her again, once again calmly chanting, “Breathe, baby, breath. Breath, baby, breath.” Her friend Yumi was with them this time. She encouraged from the back seat. She turned less blue this time. She breathed again to the father’s relief.

She had been to a psychiatric unit recently after she had taken a hand full of pills. At the psychiatric unit, they failed to administer her seizure medications properly. Praise be to the daughter who takes the next breath! Praise be to the daughter who recovers! Praise be to the Universal Daughter, the One whose name means Pure Healing! Praise be to the Pure Healing that is arising in this world through the feminine nature. Praise be to the Christ Daughters! Those ones who have turned blue, yet start breathing again! Praise the Universal Daughter!

The middle-aged-man in the Lincoln National Forest hardly saw the cracks any more. But he remembered just then. It took several trips to load all his possession in the small car, and then he was off.

“What time is it?” He asked the Universal clock. He consciously averted his eyes from the clock in his dashboard. He was more interested in what the Universal time was. 

“What time is it?” he repeated. I need to know. 

He allowed the space to accumulate after he asked the question. He was wide open. He was ready to get on the road. The lyrics to one of his songs came to him:

Maybe I could ride straight through to my destiny
Like a highway-man the best of me
Seems to be on the road
Where my future’s laid wide open

“What time is it?” he asked again, as the gravel crunched under the tires of the little toyota.

The middle-aged-man prayed for guidance. He asked to be directed. It was his growing desire to travel at the speed of life. This man had no job. He had no home of his own. This man had broken all the promises that he’d ever made. This man had done his twelve step work. This man had pushed himself. He had punished himself. Now he was asking for direction.

“What time is it, Lord?” He said.

As he was packing for his trip to the cabin a few days ago, he’d expressed to his friend Dan his desire to renew the personal aspect of his relationship with God. The middle-aged-man had even brought his bible as a prayer to renew that personal relationship that he had known so many years ago as a younger man.

As a younger man he had given himself to the experience of God in such a whole hearted way that everyone around him saw. They saw the change in him. They saw the change that is called repentance, in some circles. They saw him turn away from fear and embrace love. They saw him turn away from isolation and choose community. They saw him turn away from anger and choose compassion. They saw him turn away from sarcasm and choose innocent friendliness. It was recognized as a miracle among the people in his life.

Two nights before, in the shelter of the cabin that was built with loving hands and gifted to him by the Owl Woman, he had taken the medicine. He took the medicine and he had seen the Christ in the life and suffering and death of the Moth. The moth reached out to him in such a personal way. He saw the face of the great Cat in the moth. He saw the sparkling of the spider’s eyes in the moth. He saw the light change as the life passed from the moth. And then he’d witnessed the resurrection as the moth buzzed in his left hear, the same buzzing that he’d experienced on prior journeys when there were no insects present. 

The man was strongly held by this experience. He was strongly moved inside. He was strongly convinced that his experience was real. The man also possessed one of the greatest gifts of all, the gift of desperation. The man had read once in the Narcotics Anonymous literature that the “desperation would turn into passion for recovery.” The man had already seen this come to pass for himself in the last year of his life which he had spent, in great part, in prayer and meditation. 

The twelfth step came to the forefront of the man’s consciounsness:

“Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we carried this message to others….”

The man continued to pray as he made himself the passenger of his own life: “God, make me the reader of the Universal Story that is told through me.”

The prayer that he’d prayed as Mark the truck driver droppped him off in Amarillo came to his mind. Mark the truck driver, the one who kept the middle-aged-man listening to song after song in that pure white flat bed semi-tractor. The prayer that he’d prayed after being dropped off by Mark who kept to music flowing was this: “God, show me where to go and how to get there.” Another prayer of desperation. “Ahhhh…the gift of desperation,” said the man out loud.

The third step prayer that he’d memorized at the last treatment facility came to him ,“God, I offer myself to you. Build with me. Do with me as you will. Relieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do your will…”

“your will, not mine, be done.”

All the prayers and all the forms were open to the man now. What once had been taboo to the man, those prayers that seemed to stink of old-time religion and sentiments, they did not scare him any more. The man had transcended his own age of reason. He was walking in what Ken Wilber called the trans-rational. He was walking in the Spirit of integration, that state where life is found in all beings and in all forms, even those forms that were once forsaken in order that the journey into absolute logic and absolute materialism could be taken. Today he was unafraid. He was open. He was willing. He was integrating the forms that he had left behind so many years ago.

The middle-aged-man left the cabin and the crunching graved drive behind. The tires of his trusty blue pony felt the firmness of the blacktop road and they settled in between the yellow lines. It began with two burly, curly-haired, long-horned cattle. One was yellow. The other was black. The man pulled his car over to the side of the road. He was curious about them. He wanted to know the Chris that was in these great creatures, for the Christ had become every “thing” and every “one” to the man. And at that moment the man was very curious about how the Christ would meet him in these two cattle.

The message from F. Scott Fitzgerald, yet another unique manifestation of Christ, rang in his heart’s ears, “There all all kinds of loe in this world but never the same love twice! (exclamation mark mine)” This mantra, a holy scripture written by the Universal Christ in F. Scott Fitzgeral. “Isn’t it so much like that,” said the would-be-writer to himself.

Another song came to him from all those years ago. A sensitive song of surrender:

Reflect in me, Oh God
Reflect in me, Oh God
And when I understand the meaning
Of all the places I have been
Reflect in me, Oh god, once again

The two bulls stared at him. The middle-aged-man took pictures of them to remember this time.


5:50AM
Dream: I am awake and in my current state of thanksgiving, but I live at the hidden village. I sit on the couch. Laura Leigh Stanlake and Mark and Candy come. Their faces are bright. We begin singing “I give myself away. Candy falls right into it as she plays powerful spirit guitar in a way that is beyond comprehension. The music is pwerful and dynamic. Wn’t try ot describe what is beyond words. I give myself away I giv emyself awa. Mark puts his hand on my shoulder. We praise and the colors are bright. Then it is all dark. I am in the hidden village apartment. It is dark. The figures are still there. But it is dark. The figures begin to speak to me in words that are not words. I give myself to the listening. Is it digital? Is it the sound of metal. I do not know. Are these beings. They seem like beings. I alow them to speak. I give myself to them. The one on the side that mark was on no presses his weight inot me. I allow this to happen. I allow it to happen until I cannot comprehend that anything good is possibly happeing here. The weight is on me it is dark. I am now in sleep paralysis. The only thing I know is the hidden village. I cannot possibly know that there is any other place. I get up. It is dark. I know the apartment well. I know where the door is in relation to where I am sitting on the orange couch. I see an instrumen case. It is my bass. The red bass case probably. The door is there. The stairwell is on the right. What’s around the dark corner. My eyes are open. I am in sleep paralysis. I am walking but I know I am not walking. I am struggling againsts the death again. I am struggling against the darkness that was in he ministering presence. I could not percieve any goodness in the way I was held down. I still cannot rmember where I am or that there is another world outside the hidden village. I push myself out of the darkness out of what I know is sleep paralysis. I am awake now at my mothers house in the dark room in the bed that I lay down in just twendy minutes ago.  

So much was in the willingness to turn around that morning. As the little blue car sped down the highway the man saw the orange bull and the black bull and he was curious. There was so much in the curiosity that morning. There was so much in the willingness to turn back. 

The man said goodbye to the Christ in the stalky bulls. He walked back to his car. He drove on.

He came to the sign that signaled the boundary of the land that the government called the Lincoln National Forest (Ahhh…there is my little brother, the libertarian! Welcome little brother!). The middle-aged man stood in front of the thick, brown, wooden sign constructed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which told the him that he was leaving the Lincoln National Forest. The man took more selfies. He was trying to communicate something to someone. He wanted someone to know that he had been there. The man was involved in some kind of celebration. There was a look of satisfaction in his eyes.

The writer was now thumbing through the middle-aged-mans pictures. The writer could see that the man’s eyes were saying something to him. What were they saying? There was a peace in his eyes, was there not? A satisfaction. Is that what it was. 

The writer had laid down to rest at around 5:30. He prayed, “You write this. You finish this.” He fell asleep and had had a very vivid dream. The dream that was written down previously. It was a dream that seemed beyond a dream. The senses in the dream were beyond dream senses. He was in a different realm. There were other beings communicating with him. He felt sure of it. He did his best to trust these beings, but in the end he forced his way up. In the end he struggled against the darkness.

“Is this what the final pages look like?” the writer thought to himself. Does the dream go into the final draft. He allowed his own agenda to be deconstructed. He allowed the ending to become something different that what he had imagined. He did not know what that would be. 

The writer had begun his acknowledgments earlier in the evening. And he began some sort of introduction. And he imagined himself on a morning show, being interviewed because of the success of his book. He saw it happen and allowed the imagination to be exactly what it was. He surrendered. That is not the spirit that he wanted to end the book with, so he chose something different. He asked the ONE to finish the book for him. And then he fell asleep and communed with three old friends that he may never see again. Three old friends from his days at fullness Christian fellowship.

Laura Leigh and Mark Stanlake had been on his mind recently. 

Day 17
6:33

The writer had left his South-facing station in the mirror at his mother’s house to take a shower. What the writer had not yet shared was that at 5:30, just an hour before, as he lay down to rest, he had masturbated to the sound of his own voice. He was listening to a youtube video of himself. The middle-aged-man masturbated to the sound of his own voice reading from Bruce Sanguin’s book, The way of the wind. The reading went like this:

Under the heading:

“Our spiritual longings drive the evolutionary process”

“There is an ancient Talmudic saying: “Every blade of grass has an angel whispering in its ear… ‘grow, grow, grow,” This diving impterative emanates fro that Mystery and Source religion has called G_d. One of the implictions of this tenet is that to feel this evoutionary current alive within yourself, to hear your own angels whispering in you ear “grow, grow, grow,” and to follow this allurement, is to feel a direct connection with Source. G_d is a sclose as our deepest longings.”

Bruce goes on:

“To listen to and follow the whisper of our holy longings is to allow the originating and ongoing Wholeness or Health (G_d) to live throug us, and as us. As Paul writes in his letter to the Romans, “for we do not know how to pray as we ought, but the Spirit prays us. In this conscious consent to honouring our holy longings as expression sof Spirit, we experience an increasing sense of living from wholeness in our lives. In evolutionary spirituality, allowing ourselves to be transformed by this Wholeness is the deep meaning of salvation.”

How it was that the middle-aged-man came to find his own voice so incredibly arousing that morning he does not know. The F. Scott Fitzgeral quote came back to him now, “There are all kinds of love in this world, but never the same love twice.” The middle-aged-man was not in the least bit aware of anything else that F. Scott Fitzgerald had ever written. As far as the middle-aged-man was concerned this could have been the entire life’s work of F. Scott Fitzgerald. 

Oh, my dear reader, did you expect that we would simply walk happily into the sunset together holding hands. In all honesty, that is kind of how I was feeling this whole thing going! But alas, here we are together again, I in the first person and you, dear reader, along for this ride which you have chosen to accompany me on. If you have read this far, I suppose that there is the possibility that you expected this. Maybe you know me better than I know myself!

Any sense of meaninglessness was far-removed from the writer in this moment. Although, he still kept it in his mind that it may return at any moment. He knew how fragile this sense of meaning could be in his being. 

The writer had begun his work early in the AM (the AM? The great AM!.... now the writer entertains himself). The “great AM) that time of morning that is unsoiled by the shit of the day (Ahhh, the sacred shit that runs through us all as a result of taking in sustenance. The shit cannot be avoided). This is where the writer found himself. In the great AM.

The writer began his work earlier that morning wondering if he was in the home stretch, and it was possible that he was. However, he also wanted to stay true to the genre. No, that is not how the writer had been thinking at all. The writer was merely trying to stay true to the great Process. The writer was allowing himself to stay true to the Self that was finding some kind of transparency, some kind of honesty in and through him. This is what he gave himself to. If a “new genre” is to be created then so be it. He just prayed the prayer, “You finish this project. You finish this.” He turned his awareness inward and asked for the miracle to continue (that’s about the time that he turned himself on), and he did hope that you were able to follow, dear reader, (hell, if you’ve come this far this is not a surprise is it?) but he knew that he really had no control over your response to his behavior whatsoever. Today this writer was willing to go down with his messy ship.

He remembered a text exchange between himself and his brother from a couple of days ago, the day that his father’s trauma had surfaced so violently.

And as the writer unlocked his phone with his thumbprint, he discovered a new message from this brother from last night that he had yet too see. The five messages came in over a period of twenty minutes. They reminded him of the deep illness that his father had been handed down from the generations before him, the illness that the middle-aged-man had been trying, over these last seventeen days to love and embrace.

The messages from his brother sang like this:

Brother: “What the fuck have you been telling dad about me? I got a weird fucking message from him. Please don’t talk to dad about me…or mom for that matter. I promise I will return the favor. Please…I’m begging you. I love you. Just please don’t mention to them the things we talk about.”

The son imagined the suffering that his father must have been enduring over the last several days. He understood what it was like to only have self-justification as a means to relieve the pain. It was true what his brother said, the son had spoken to his father. He’d told him about his desire to not be given advice. He’d spoken to the father about the concept of people sharing experience, strength, and hope with one another instead of advice.

As the brother begged him not to talk about him, the middle-aged-man became acutely aware of how little trust there was in his family. And he understood why. He had recently witnessed (with-nessed) his father turn on him without any provocation whatsoever. His father’s trauma was so deep, his resentment so thick, his anger so strong, that he would attacked even when there was no hint of aggression coming from the outside. His father was being attacked from the inside on a daily basis. His father had been in a state of fight or flight since he was a child, with only short rests perhaps. This was his father’s default mode.

And now the middle-aged-man could palpate that mistrust in his brother’s text. He heard the fear. “Why do we keep doing this?” the middle-aged-man asked himself. “Why do we keep doing this?” the middle aged man asked his deeper Self. 

The son had allowed himself to trust his father again. The son had allowed himself to believe that everything might be okay. The son shared with his father openly. The son had talked with his father about an interaction that he’d had with his brother. The son had not revealed any personal information about the brother. The son had merely talked about a conversation that they’d had in which a boundary had been set. Boundaries were offensive to the father. The father was now using the knowledge he had to make trouble. 

“Maybe this will not be in the final draft,” the writer thought. “This doesn’t see very much like the ‘dying author’ to me,” he thought again.

The middle-aged-man sensed the fear in himself. He sensed the mistrust. He breathed into this moment. A bird made a skittering sound outside the window. He raised the shades to let in some ligh. He communed for a moment with the green bushes and the ground ivy outside the West window. 

It was now 7:35AM on Saturday January fourth in this real-time experiment. The middle-aged-man was scheduled to go with his mother to visit his grandmother on that day at 8:30AM. 

The middle-aged-man was looking forward to seeing his grandmother. He had not truly reconciled with his grandfather before he died. He had not the strength or the wisdom to do so. But today he would hug and kiss hid grandmother, the woman who sang to him when he was a child. The woman who cooked for him and his extended family on holidays. His oldest living ancestor. 

The middle aged man prayed that he would bring peace and love to his grandmother on this day. He prayed that he would bring her respect and honor from the deepest parts of his being.

Dear reader, we approach the baptism still. And still, we approach the mountain. Which is where we shall part ways. I will continue to treasure this communion that I am having with you even as I travel today. I pray for deeper insight into our relationship. I pray for you, dear reader. I pray for your wellness. I pray that I am able to return safely and complete this narration so that it may find its way into your hands and into your heart.

Praise be to the family who suffers. Praise be to the ones who are in need of healing. Blessings upon us all.

Where does the text from brother come in?

Day 17
5:10PM

The writer felt stalled, dear reader. The writer did not know how this project would ever be finished.

On the trip to Kansas with his mother he faced his own trauma. He was haunted by his father and the text that he received. 

The writer felt that he may be swallowed by his trauma that he had somehow revisited on himself in his return to his father’s house.

This is how he had come to interpret the dream of that morning:

Three friendly spirits had come to visit him as he slept. Theese spirit’s joined the man in the song that had delivered him from death on Christmas day. The spirits were telling him that he had gone back to a place of trauma in the past, the hidden village apartments, where he’d lived when his trauma had overtaken him first in his adult life. At the end of the dream the spirits showed him the oppression that he’d submitted himself to in the return that he’d made to his father. The man had stayed “pinned down” by the spirit until he knew that there was nothing good happening. It was then that the man got up and headed toward the door. 

The man wept several times as he sat next to his mother on the car ride home from Kansas. With the woman who knew the father’s abuse as well as anyone else in the world, he was able to express his frustration and anger and sadness that the father would do what he did. He expressed his anger and frustation and sadness that he kept returning to the father. The son felt that he never wanted to return again. “Please, God, don’t make me go back. I don’t want to go back.” The son prayed to God. 

The son felt that he had led himself to the place that scared him with his father for the last time. He knew that he could make no vows. He knew that it was not a vow that this situation required. “Why do I keep going back to that man?” the son questioned himself in the presence of his Mother. 

The previous night, the writer had experienced elation as he felt that he was approaching the end of this writing project. He sensed that the end was in sight. But as he’d received the text from his brother this morning he felt that he had retraumatized himself. His writing, as he was experiencing it now

This is how the text exchange from that morning with his brother had gone:

Brother: what the fuck have you been telling dad about me? I got a weird fucking message from him. Please don’t talk to dad about me or…or mom for that matter. I promise I will return the favor. Please…I’m begging you. I love you. Just please don’t mention to them the things we talk about.

Writer: I did not give away any of your personal information. I spoke of my requst that you not give me advice, as it came up in my conversation with him.

There is understandably a deep lack of trust in our family. It is rooted in our trauma and our shame.

I must be free to share as my Heart leads. And that is what I did. Family comes up when we are talking to family. That is something that is going to happen.

So, I cannot promise that I will never ever mention anything that happens between us. I can however say that it is my intention to never speak poorly of yo or share any personal information that may open you to an attack. And that is exactly how I consciously approached the situation.

I acknowledge the dysfunction iin our family. I acknowledge the fear. I acknowledge the trauma that has come from crippling abuse.

I acknowledge you. I love you. But I will not play these dramatic games with the two of you. That is not something that I am willing to do.

If this is not acceptable to you, then I respect your decisiton if you choose to stop talking to me. But, I must trust my Self with my own speech. I must trust my Self.

I accept you. I love you. This is all I have to say about this right now.

Dad tried to cripple me a couple of days ago. He attacked without provocation. He tried desperately to shame me. That is what he chooses to do. This in what he is trying to bring YOU into. 

My suggestion is that you just let him take care of himself. Just a suggesion. Take it or leave it.

Brother: He’s obviously in one of his shit mood. He mentionned the mushrooms. I figured you told him I was also taking them.

I won’t speak to dad when he gets in these moods.

He didn’t’ ge the information about me doing mushrooms from anyone but you…It’s just none of his business.

Writer: Okay I understand. I must have let something slip. When my heart opens up I say things. Me and the old man were having a moment of peace and I opened up. I believe that it was in the context of you and I reconnecting. I really don’t even remember exactly.

I screwed up here. I am doing my best to walk this walk.

Brother: Just know your fucking audience. To dad, heroine, coke, LSD, mushrooms, are all the same in his mind. He’s an old man, dude. Treat him as such. Cold war…Ronald Reagan…just say no!....Commies…Trump good….Make america great again….fags are ruining our country…global warming is a hoax….That’s dad. That’s your audience when you’re talking to him.

Writer: I truly do not believe that I told him YOU were taking mushrooms. Let me rephrase. It is hard for me to believe that I would tell him that YOU ate mushrooms after all we went through last year when I ahd to apologize to you twice for betraying your trust. That seems like somehting that my common sense would filter from coming through my mouth.

Did I tell him? Is there some specific information that he told you that indicated that for sure I’d told him that YOU were eating mushrooms. If I id, I am truly sorry.

If I did, I must confess that I must have been under the spell of the sickness and dysfunctional control tha is manifest in me as I reapproach my father.  Ughh…it truly makes me sick to think that I may have betrayed your trust there.

All of this was bothering the writer who was trying to complete this project

The write rose from his seated position and became a musician? A Levite? He gave praise and thanksgiving with his mandolin. He sang in the presence of the Universal Glow. 


Day18
1:51AM

The man lay in bed, the great healing continued. The great turning was being made evident in this individual being. It was 1:51AM on Day 18. He believed. He acknowledged the great One. He acknowledged the unity of being and having. He allowed “being” and “having” to unite with him. Where the Being was the “having”, or rather, in the I Am-ness everything that he ever wanted to have was already had. 

The man acknowledged his own suffering. The man acknowledged his own dynamic nature as he phased in and out of deep consciousness and emotional pain. 

How does that which was once unacceptable come to be accepted? How does that journey come to pass? How does one allow something to come forth within one’s self that the ego refuses to accept? 

The writer lay in bed in the early hours of the morning acknowledging that the human being that he’d felt had seen him the most clearly recently was the man that he’d sat with at IHOP just days before. 

“How is it that which was once unacceptable becomes acceptable?” he asked himself.

The man lay in bed allowing that which was what once unacceptable to finally be accepted in his being. The man that he’d sat with at IHOP had once followed him, perhaps even pursued him.

Through his most recent encounter with his father, the man was making peace with his own anguish. The very anguish which had created a need for Christ within him in the first place so many many years ago as he had face what was absolutely unacceptable in himself. As he faced what his father had also identified within his son, that which was unacceptable.

The man, all those years ago, came to the Christ carrying that within him which was unacceptable. And it was there within the bounds even of fundamentalist christianity that the young man fell in love…

The young man fell in love with another man. The young man found a place within the limitations of his own contracted being, and within the limitations of a clearly deficient fundamentalism, a context in which to fall in love with another man. A context in which he could allow himself to be held by another man. A context in which to become passionately infatuated with the life of another man.

And it was within the context of that love for a man that he called, Jesus in which the young man first discovered self-love. Then a woman appeared. A young woman who the man did not find particularly attractive, but a woman who seemed safe because the young man had a knowing that she would never be able to leave him, and that was especially what the young man wanted. He wanted to be held. He did not want to be left. Like all the other women who had ever been in his life seemed to do.

And it was in this way that the man’s love affair with Jesus transformed into something else. It was in this way that the young man and the young woman who was also desperately trying to make peace with that which was unacceptable within her self began to try to meet one another’s needs. A task that, in the end, would prove to be impossible. For when two people come together who have yet to accept that which is unacceptable in themselves there is little hope that they will find acceptance for one another. And even less hope that they will find acceptance that they so dearly need from the other. 

And so it came to pass that the middle aged man found himself wanting to contact his old friend, the one who had once pursued him, the one who had once followed him as he moved to his South, as he picked up his budding family and moved in a southerly direction. As his wild one persisted.

The christ taught the young man. Jesus had tauht the young man that he must love his neighbor as he loved himself. But the young man had yet to discover a deeper nature of self-love. 

How does one love one’s self when one finds that which is unacceptable in one’s self? How does one come to love one’s self when as a child she is given the message that she is unacceptable? What happens to a gentle feminine nature when it is despised in a young boy? 

The middle-aged-man, as he asked himself this question, thought that he saw the answer very clearly in the trembling image of his father. His father, who was called “homo” and “fag” by his own father and his elder brother of six years. And of course the middle-aged-man saw the results of this violence within himself also.

Years ago as the young mans inner artist (his feminine nature) was blossoming he sat with a friend, both of them playing guitar, alone at the friend’s apartment. Both having taken medicine into their lungs. And the young man had felt a sudden and profound magnetic attraction toward his friend which terrified him and sent him running immediately to the bathroom, splashing water in his face and looking in the mirror, unable to accept himself. 

And it was in this way that the middle aged man now found himself lying in bed, approachin the point of no return, that which his Universal Pema had asked him to go beyond. It was in this way that the middle aged man found himself making peace with that which he’d been unable to make peace with for so very very long. 

“Father?” the middle-aged-man found himself crying now, under the warm covers. Gentle sobs.
“Yes, son?”
“Can we climb that mountain?”
“Yes, son. Let’s climb the mountain together.”

The writer crawled out from underneath the covers and made his way to the shower. He bathed his body in a natural peppermint soap. He sat on the tile floor, the warm water falling over his body as his crossed legs acted as a natural dam. Raising the dam, he watched the water naturally find its way to the drain. He observed this process several times before standing and reaching for the spigot (The writer found it noteworthy that the spigot in this shower at his mothers was the same exact make of the one in his bathroom at the great adobe home in New Mexico).

The water no longer flowing from the shower head, he stood, allowing the drops to naturally drip from his hair and his skin. He reached for the squeegee that hung on the large glass shower partition. He drug the rubber blade horizontally down the full length of the large glass door. He then continued the process with the other half of the thick glass partition.

He exited the shower and took a seat on the closed toilet just outside the thick glass partition. He had not done an exact job with the squeegee, for there still remained water droplets here and there, especially around the door handle where the squeegee could not access fully. As he sat there on the fabric of the toilet seat cover, a single water droplet presented itself to the man. 

He saw a tiny white dot reflected in the water droplet from the bathroom light. The light was so bright it looked like some kind of pure white particulate being held in the form of the droplet. The man noticed that the form of the droplet was distorted by the downward pull of gravity as it was slowly being pulled toward the center of the earth. The droplet did not make its decent all at once though. In fact, at this moment it had stopped completely. 

The man then noticed that every other water droplet also had the same intense white light shining from within its being. The glass shower door was suddenly alive to the man, inhabited by a community of living water. Rivulets of life joined one another in the downward flow as the water so naturally moved toward the center of gravity, mother earth. The man now sat with this scene, his attention on the aliveness of what was happening before him, reminded of the patience that had been manifested in him as he witnessed the death and resurrection of the moth.

He watched as one water droplet made its journey all the way to the base of the shower door and disappeared. Other droplets continued downward, sometimes slightly irregular paths but always, sometimes joining one another, but always in a general downward direction.

The man’s attention was drawn back to the first droplet that had caught his attention. It remained still, seemingly unable to move. “Is it stuck?” the man questioned. “Does it need help?” he wondered. He imagined himself opening the door, for the droplet was on the other side of the door, and sticking out his tongue to absorb the droplet into his own being. He did not want the water droplet to be alone. But he did not do this. He waited patiently for another moment. And another. And another. Until his mind drifted.

His mind drifted to his friend that he’d sat with at IHOP several days ago. He imagined contacting him. He imagined what he would say. “I need to see you?” too needy. “I’d like to see you?” that sounded a little better. “Can I see you again?” that sounded a little bit too romantic for his liking. Then he took another approach. “When I’m with you I feel seen. I’d like to spend some more time with you because I enjoy that experience.” A little wordy. He tried again. “I feel very much like myself when I am with you.” Okay, that was interesting. “When I am with you I feel like I am discovering myself. Can I see you again…soon? Can I see you alone? I’d like to know what it is like to be held by you? Would you please hold me?”

The man’s attention came back to the water droplet that first drew his attention. It was still motionless. But, just then it did move. Just slightly. But it was capable of motion. The man had thought that it would surely just have to evaporate, that it was incapable of continuing its movement toward the center of the earth. There. It moved again.

The man then saw movement in another region of the glass partition. Just inches away there was a great joining of waters and downward flow. It was happening all around. All these minutes after he’d exited the shower and the door was still alive with this movement that he would have usually been so unaware of. But the mushrooms had reminded him of what he could see when he allowed the stillness and the patience to arise from within his being. Because of his relationship with this patience, he was now fully engaged with the life of this water droplet.

It was then that he noticed there was another droplet below the first. The first droplet moved again. It came down several millimeters and then stopped. It moved again. The man now wondered if the two droplets would somehow merge. It seemed possible, although they were directly in line with one another. The first droplet moved again. It began a slow but steady decent. The man wondered what this decent cost the droplet in terms of mass, was it leaving a little bit of itself behind or was it retaining its fullness as it progressed. 

It became evident as the droplet continued that it would merge with the other droplet. It slowly creeped closer and closer, sometimes stopping for a brief moment, sometimes favoring one direction over the other slightly. Closer and closer it came as the man anticipated the moment when the attractive force of the water molecules, which was the cause of the surface tension that caused it to hold form in the first place, would reach out to the other droplet. They came closer still. And finally it happened.

When they joined it was immediate. The mass of the two droplets together was more than the glass door could hold and the droplet rushed without any hesitation downward, disappearing into wherever it was that they disappeared into down there. The man did not bother investigating their final fate. It was out of his hands, very much like when the moth had finally died at the cabin, and the light had changed, and it was finally all over (or so he’d thought). He just left the moth there in the covers to be folded in, eventually turning off the lights and closing his eyes with the expired moth right there in bed with him.

And it was in this way that the writer’s workday started.

Day 18
5:00AM

The writer fell asleep after writing about the water droplets in the shower. He dreamed that he was riding a blue roller coaster. It went forwad. It wnet backward. It went on for quite some time. At the end he somehow just stopped holding on so tightly and he let go and he just kind of floated there. He just floated there in that space. In fact, he was a little worried that he might float away or float out. But he didn’t. The dream and real life integrated and when this happened the man was holding his genitals with his left hand as he floated in the blue roller coaster. He was just floating there as the roller coaster rolled. On his final pass through the roller coaster’s cycle he knew the turns very well and he was just kind of floating and leaning into the turns. The coaster came to a stop. And he exited and walked away when he realized that he’d left his glasses. He walked back to get his glasses which he feared had fallen out of the roller coaster but they had not. They were sitting right there in the seat. Then he made his way down these stairs, this rectangular spiraling stairwell. He went out into what was some kind of train station thinking that the next tie he came to the roller coaster eh would ride it over and over again. He overheard some people talking to one another. What were they saying?

Day 18
5:44AM

The writer rested in his mother’s Northernmost spare bedroom. He was warm under the covers. Yawning. Sometimes speaking into his telephone, recording dreams and visions. He considered the mother of his children. He pulled the chain on the lamp beside his bed. The light came on. For the second time that morning, he crawled out from underneath his covers. He retrieved his chromebook from its position on the floor by the bookshelf where it had been charging for the last forty-five minutes.

He was considering what he would tell the mother of his children when the next payday arrived, the payday that would hold no pay for the unemployed writer. Five days from now the mother of his children would be expecting money. The man was on medical leave. He now had just over twelve-hundred dollars in his account. One-thousand-two-hundred-thrity-six dollars and sixty-eight cents to be exact. The woman that he’d been married to for over twenty years expected seven-hundred and eight-six dollars. 

He considered the possibilities: 

He could send her a message saying, “I’m on medical leave. I do not have any money to give you.”

He could simply give her the whole sum and live with the lack himself, giving fully what he was legally obligated to provide, ensuring that his children’s car payments were made and that his people had everything they needed for one more month.

This second option satisfied him for now. 

The writer was concerned about his teeth. He needed several thousand dollars worth of dental work. The writer was concerned about an ingrown toenail that would eventually need medical attention. What would he do when he could no longer pay for the medical insurance that was still available to him through the employer that so graciously returned to him his two week’s notice and placed him on medical leave? 

These were some of the details of life that he was checking in with. These were the details that he felt the liberty now to trust to Life. These were the details that his earthly father had used in his attempts to shame him into submission. These were the details he always knew would eventually emerge. These were the details that had kept him bound to an unhappy marriage—the details that kept him working at the perfect job with the perfect boss and the perfect coworkers—a job that he unfortunately was just not called to (at least this was the story that made sense to the man today). 

Time an time again he had returned to work after becoming depleted. Twice he had come back from a treatment center and started over. The man was convinced that it was not an attitude problem that caused his problem. It was not an unwillingness to embrace the job. It was not an inability to get along with others. It was not an unwillingness to care for his patients. It was just simply that he became depleted and found himself unable to recover.

The unemployed writer found himself approaching in himself what appeared to be self-justification. And this, he believed, was why he had again placed the laptop in his lap and flipped it open. He needed to face these details in the light of his screen. He needed to see how he was working with himself here. 

These details that Life was presenting him with simply were. These details did not prove to anyone that he was a terrible person. These details did not prove that he was not taking care of his business. These details had arisen as he took one step after another to be true to his Self. And, as was necessary, the man knew that the appropriate wisdom would rise up from within and he would know how to address these details.

The man knew that the support was there. The support would come from within and from without. He was supported in the fabric of his community. He was supported in the fabric of the Kosmos (the K in Ken Wilber’s Kosmos). It was now his job to trust.

He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as his old friend Thich Nhat Hanh had instructed him to do. Just as he now received instruction to do from the wisdom that he knew his Self to be. Theosis. I and the Father are one. 

The man reminded himself that there was no battle to fight over this. There was no need to justify a life as it responded to Love. His course was a natural one, and it was supported by the Wisdom of the ages. The same Wisdom that asked those men in Galille to drop their nets and follow the Christ. The same Wisdom that caused Siddartha Guatama to leave his young family and his palace and move out into the world. These examples were not justifications, they were simply Universal expressions that the man found resounding in his heart.

And so it came to pass that, in this way, the man continued to make peace with himself and the Life that flowed through him. So it came to pass that the man made peace with himself as he trusted Life with these details. So it came to pass that the man allowed his being to be sown back into the soil as he recognized the fragility of his own form. 

The man understood the working out of these details to be the passageways that lead to the deeper discovery of Spirit. The man understood that it was by leaning into Life as it was presented that the process of enlightenment continued. It was in the working-with in contrast to the struggling-against where the man found himself to be held. As he embraced the broad band of physical and emotional experience that his new life required he came deeply into experience, making love to Life, taking God as his Lover, just as Hafiz had directed him in his words written over eight-hundred years ago. Hafiz, that Sufi man who made love to God.
And it was in this way that the unemployed writer found his encouragement as he felt these words of wisdom arising from within his being. It was in this way that he hoped, dear reader, that he was moving toward the final scenes of this work in which he found himself so deeply connected with ya’ll (as they said in his Oklahoma home).

His mother knocked on the door. She laughed and smiled, “Still writing, huh? Did you get some sleep?

“yeah, I got some good sleep said the son,” still reclining in bed with his chromebook resting on the weigted blanket in his lap.”

“Well, I wanted to tell you that I’m going to volunteer at the church the Bethany Children’s Center this morning. I’ll tell you how to get there…” the Universal Glow went through a lengthy description of the route he should take and the landmarks that he would see if the writer chose to make the journey that morning.

“I think I’ll just type the name of the place in my phone,” said the son, “it will tell me how to get there.”

“Oh yeah,” said the Universal Glow, “I forget about that. So, I’ll see you there?”

“you very well may,” said the son.
 
Yesterday morning, the mother and son drove North on I-35 for two hours to see the woman who the man had always known as grandma Rosie. She had once sent her grandson a Christmas card which was gaily bordered with candy canes and ginger-bread men. The card expressed her genuine concern for the grandson’s mental illness after he’d quit his job as a police officer, forsaken his mother, and moved his family to a Children’s home in New Mexico. The man shook with shame and fear that afternoon as his deeply rooted trauma clung to the ego that was protecting it.

Today the man felt no ill will toward his grandmother. He only wanted to bring her his love. He wanted to honor his ancestor, his oldest living ancestor. The woman who once held him and rocked him. The woman who cared for him as his mother was going back to school. The woman who sang, “on the day that you were born the angels got together and decided to create a dream come true…” The woman who now took the tiniest of steps with a can (she should have been using a walker), shuffling across her living room floor to get to her favorite chair.

They sat together in the living room, the son flipping through a picture album from nineteen-ninety two, the year of the man’s highschool graduation. They encountered many good memories together, and they all sang the song together that the grandmother had sung to the little boy, “…so they sprinkled stardust in your hair and golden starlight in your eyes of blue.”

The grandmother, the mother, and the son met the two aunts at the Mexican restaurant across the street from the Vince Erwin Glass Shop. They sat in the restaurant trying to make sense of family trees and they broke tortillas together (Praise be to the hand that rolled them out!).

The mother and the son returned the grandmother to her home and settled her in her favorite chair where she passed her time watching television. They kissed her goodbye. They left the yellow roses on her kitchen table. The mother steered her vehicle South, back toward Oklahoma City. They stopped for a bathroom break. They took a selfie together next to a large bear statue. Praise be to the bear! You are a strong strong strong strong stron strong bear! Oso

It was on this drive home, headed directly South, the sun beginning its afternoon decent early as it does in the winter, that the mother and the son talked about the father.

“He is such a hurtful man.” Said the son. “I have never personally known anyone who is so intentionally hurtful as he is.”

“I know,” said the mother. “I am sorry that you are hurting.”

“Why do I keep going back to him? Why do I keep giving that man my heart? I told him that I was writing a book. I told him that he would be in it. Does he not want to write a better story than this? After all these years of suffering, does he not want to write a better ending than this?”

“His story is not your story,” said the Universal Glow.

“You are right,” said the son. “It’s just so hurtful. He makes me believe that there is evil in the world. It is as if he is gripped by a power that is greater than himself. He attacks with such hate. It can’t be him. That’s not him. That his not who he is. I believe that every human is good at the core, that we are all connected to the diving One-ness at our center. But that is not him. What he becomes when he attacks, that is something else. It is not him.” 

“I know. I know what you are talking about. I lived with it for well over twenty years. He is a recurring nightmare. He is chaos. He is rage. He is unreasonable. He is suffering. I understand what you are going through.”

It was during this conversation with his mother that the son felt the interpretation of the dream that he’d received that morning in which three of his old friends showed up and sang his song with him. It seemed now to the son that these were spirits that were sent to him with a message. And in this message he understood in a deeper way how destructive it was for him to keep returning to his father. In this open state he saw the insanity of returning to an abusive relationship time and time again. 

“I hope I am wrong,” said the mother, “But I do not believe he will ever change. I have watched him for years. It is hard for me to believe that he could ever change.”

The mother shared stories with the son of the abuse and hurtful thoughtlessness that the father of her children had heaped on her, layer by layer over many years until she finally had to leave. 

The son hoped that he would never have to go back. He did not want to go back. He wanted it to be over. He knew that he could not make any vows, but that is how strongly that his feelings were. He prayed that he would never have to go back to that man who willingly gave himself to hate and anger. The man who would not stop blaming his children for his own suffering. 

The son had already hated his father. That time was over. The son had already fought against his father. The son had stood up to his father—that was done. The son had returned to his father this time with the purest peace in his heart that he’d ever known—the greatest possible gift of the son’s joyful heart had been presented to the father. And the father chose to kick the son in the proverbial balls. “Son of a bitch! That hurt,” cried the son, as he recovered once again from the shameful attacks of a bitter old man.

The father would find his own awakening. The son could not give his father his awakening. The father was now on his own. The father who lived in the harshly reverberating house where the television always played. The father who blamed his sons for his own misery. “Please, God, let it be over. Let it be done. I do not want to go back. Please do not make me go back there.” The son wept as they drove South on I-35. 

“Please God, don’t make me go back,” the prayer of a scared child. A prayer prayed in fear. The fear that the son was now experiencing in powerful waves. The fear that he was slowly losing his mind. The irrational fear that somehow his life was in danger. The same fear that he’d experienced when his father ripped the shower door off he hinges. The same fear that he’d experienced when the father chased him around the huge evergreen in the front yard. The same fear that he’d experienced when the father told him how he’d wanted for so long to put a bullet in his head and also into the head of his mother. This fear that if he couldn’t make his father happy that he would die. That somehow his life was in danger when his father was unhappy.

And it was in this state in which the son returned to his mother’s home, where intellectually he knew that he was safe. But where also, now he was still so intimately in touch with his own suffering. Those parts of his being, those ego parts, those fragmented and suffering aspects of his being, those scared little children, they were panicking. They knew that they were not safe and that their life was in danger. The son had encountered these same scared children in his father as his father told him how he was scared that the son would also murder him. His father experienced this too. This was part of what kept them all in bondage, his father, his brther, and himself.

And so it came to pass that the son remembered his greatest Christmas gift, which was the “lethal dose” of medicine that he’d ingested on Christmas Day. On that morning he had felt utterly lost, he did not know if he would be able to come back. He lay there slick with his own purge, water dripping from his soaking hair from the shower. He lay there as the yellow light turned to a sick green and he knew that he was going back to the psychiatric unit. He knew that his mind was gone and may not ever come back. He lay there knowing that he was dying.

It was then that he prayed to the father for direction. It was then that he told his father that he did not want to die just yet. That he was not ready to lose his mind and take his own life. It was then that he got up off the cold tile floor and put on his pants (no underwear. not even a thought of underwear). He put on one of his most warm and comfortable shirts. He made his way to the living room, his mind un-recoverable. He grabbed his waiting guitar, and he began to play. His hands were a little too big and clunky, but it was only a problem for a moment, because he’d been practicing for a lifetime for this moment. And it was then that the greatest non-performance of his lifetime had occurred. The non-performance that would restore the joy of his salvation. The non-performance in which praise and thanksgiving and (dare he say?) worship flowed from his being. He praised the sun in the sky. The trees and the soil. The birds and the grass. He prayed for the people in the passing jet as it left its trail through the blue.

And it was in this same spirit, grabbing on to the form he knew, this time with an instrument that he did not know quite so well (Lina, his mandolin) that he began to sing again:

“mine is a story of redemption
I once was lost but now I’m found
I’m letting go of my pretensions
I’m dancing to a deeper, higher sound
We are the oneness, we are the unity
We are the light

And so another vamp began… “we are the light, we are the light, we are the light”

And the son rode the wave of energy that the Spirit had been teaching him how to create all these years. 

And then his song changed to a minor key. And another vamp began in which he recalled the journey of the last year of his life, from the time that he arrived at the psychiatric unit until he had a renewed serenity experience in conjunction with his 12 step work.

And he faced North, looking into his reflection that was made in the large window in his mother’s living room adjacent to the kitchen. And his mother was witness to this song. And the mother was witness to the thanksgiving and praise and the testimony that flowed from her eldest son. And when he was finally done she said, “Amen. Are you sweating?”

And with that the son laughed with that because he now had the gift of not taking himself too seriously.

And so it came to pass that the son shared with his mother the story of his baptism in the cold mountain stream and his climb to the top of the mountain just outside the Lincoln National Forest.





“Father?
“Yes, Son?”
“Can we climb that mountain?”
“Yes, Son. Let’s climb it together. One step at a time.”


Day 18
8:35PM

The man allowed himself to be drawn out of a dream as he was awaking from a nearly three hour nap.

A strange thing had happened. He had just received a text from the only man that he’d ever confessed his attraction towards. It was a man that he’d met at the first treatment center that he’d attended. The writer was unable to dismiss the text as merely coincidence. He had not heard from the man in over a year.

The writer had fallend asleep hours before praying for direction. “Have I gone past the point of no return?” He asked the Universe. “Is it time to go back home tomorrow?” he prayed out loud.

He felt as if he’d done some kind of violence toward himself earlier that day as he had forced himself to stay at the church service that he’d attended, the church service that his mother served at there in the Bethany Children’s Center. 

He went because he was curious about his mother’s life. He went because his mother invited him. He went knowing that it may not be his cup of tea. He went with the intent of honoring his mother, whatever that meant.

He’d sat in a darkened conference room watching a live-streamed broadcast of a church service that was taking place across town. He watched Sandi Patti, a veteran of popular the popular Christian music world, deliver an impressive musical stage performance. He watched as an intelligent, funny, and attractive middle-aged-man preach about patience. He allowed himself to eventually sing with the other’s who’d gathered in the dark room to watch the images projected on the white screen. He allowed himself to laugh and the preacher’s jokes. 

After the service he found his car in the parking garage. As he was situating himself in the driver’s seat he got a text from Dan. He and Christy had gone to Las Vegas. They got married. This was marriage number eight for his good friend, Danno. The middle aged man hoped that his friend found what he was looking for this time. The middle-aged-man certainly had found the crazy-wisdom and love that he needed in Dan.

However, the middle-aged man also found his already uncertain future to feel threatened. He was now living with a married couple, which was a very different thing than having a single man as a roomate. The man put these emotions on the back burner and continued with his day. He and his mother had been invited to lunch.

The middle-aged-man offered to help clean up after the church service. The middle-aged-man politely and even vigorously accepted an invitation to a meal that his mother’s dear friend prepared for the mother and the son. The son retrieved his guitar from his vehicle and played pre-mean instrumental music for the lunch party.

Despite all of these efforts, the middle-aged-man felt false and contrived. He did want to offend his mother or his gracious hosts, but he was bored as her sat there in their polite company, being as polite as he possibly could. He also felt that any attempt that he made to express his genuine self would only end in confusion, a confusion that he did not want to bring on himself, or his mother, or his mother’s friend and her husband. 

He ate two pieces of breaded tilapia. He ate the lavender peas. He ate the seasoned wild rice. He ate thickly buttered Hawaiian rolls. He devoured two helpings of cobbler and ice cream. After lunch was over and there was an appropriatley long pause in the polite conversation, he announced that he was scheduled to teach a guitar lesson across town. He excused himself from the table, gathered his coat, latched his guitar in its case, hugged his mother and his gracious host, shook the dentist’s hand, and found his way to his little blue Toyota.

The food weighed heavy in his stomach and he could feel a heavy sleepiness weighing on him. He was unsure how he would give of himself as he made his way North across OKC on Rockwell Ave. But the middle-aged-man made his way none the less. 

The city finally gave way to fields and trees. He turned West on 192nd and shortly arrived at his old friend’s beautiful home. The home that his entrepreneurial friend, Brian had built himself. The middle-aged-man had played a limited role in its construction. He’d worked for his friend back in the late 90’s at his screen printing shop.

The middle-aged-man struggled with feelings of inadequacy (or was that jealousy?) as he entered the luxurious home on the Western edge of Edmond. He was aware that his beard may appear to be scruffy of unkempt. He was conscious of his little blue car and all its inadequacies. 

The man remembered the ACIM lesson the day: “This thought about _____ is not a neutral thought. The man had been aware, even as he had been travelling north on Rockwell for the last twenty five minutes that his thoughts were far from neutral. His thoughts were contributing to the “illusion” as ACIM said. Even as he was aware of this he prayed that God would use him in service. And it was in this condition that the middle-aged-man arrived at his old friend’s house because he volunteered to give his friends gifted son, Nash, a guitar lesson.

He was greeted by Shelly and another son, Hudson, who was also interested in guitar. The middle-aged-man did the best with the energy that he had. He struggled to find a way for the three of them to make music together. He used his musical skills to engage the boys in the music. They laughed. They played. The middle-aged-mans efforts were not without fruit. He was able to impart som musical wisdom. He used his skills to serve the family. The middle-aged-man felt pleased in the effort that he had been able to put forth.

Shelly inquired about the wellness of his children. The middle-aged man was happy tht he could report that they were indeed well. The middle-aged man shared in a limited way about his own life. The boys inquired about his recent backpack journey, which caused the middle-aged-man to feel insecure in that he was possibly bringing some unwelcomed influence to these growing boys.

Lots of ego. That’s what the middle-aged-man was trapped in today. He wasn’t quite where he wanted to be. Or was he not quite where he needed to be? And if so, where was it that he was truly needed? Was he somehow on this day being less than true to his Self? Had he not chosen to be exactly where he was?

Nash introduced his bearded guest to the family’s Christmas present, a knobby tired go cart with an impressive sound system. “Get in,” said Nash. The middle-aged-man complied. Do you like “Smile?” Nash asked.

“I don’t know what you mean.” Said the man.

“It’s a song. It’s called “Smile. It’s one of my favorite jams.” And with this Nash turned up the volume and began wildly circling the terrain of the property, the man holding on for his dear life and smiling indeed. This young boy seemed to be intentional in the lifting up of the middle-aged-man. They circled the large property several times, Nash leaning forward in the seat, mashing the accelerator to the floor, the middle-aged man pushing himself down into the seat with his arms, smiling some more.

There was a gentleness and a wisdom in this family that the middle-aged-man felt somehow estranged from. There was a distance that their obvious financial success caused in him. He did not want to feel the alienation that he was experiencing, and he did not blame any of them for causing it. It simply was.

He’d felt the same as he’d sat earlier at the large table, eating with his mother and her friends. He felt somehow out of place, like if he spoke up and really became himself that it would just be too much. 

After the middle-aged-man said his goodbyes to Shelly and Hudson, who had begun disassembling the Christmas tree (Christmas decorations! a task which the man had recognized in himself as some kind of emotional trigger for years) Nash very deliberated showed him out to his car.

Nash lingered with gentle affection for the man. He hugged him, and hugged him again. He showed the man how to do the a handshake that, in his current state, he found to be very challenging.

“Promise me that I’ll see you within the next year,” said the boy.

“I don’t make promises,” said the man.

“Well, promise me that you’ll come back in the next two years,” the boy compromised.

“Nash. Next time I’m in town I will get a hold of your Dad, okay.” 

The boy expressed some kind of affection for the middle-aged-man that he was unable to generate for himself that day. The man had no idea how a human could have knocked on the door of his heart more effectively. This boy was present in a way that the middle-aged-man could hardly understand. He tried to receive the gift. It was his intention to receive this gift from the Universe.

As the young man finally allowed him to close the door and drive away, the middle aged man prayed. “God, I offer myself to you. God help me. God help us all.” He was exhausted. He’d been up writing for most of the night. He made his way East on 178th street as the fields turned into the city streets of Edmond.

His exhaustion turned into desperation as he found himself seemingly unable to navigate his way back to his mother’s home. He found himself, against his will, consciously passing the intersection of 143rd and Coltrane. An intersection that he recognized immediately as the entrance to an old world. He made a U-turn and turned West toward one of the neighborhoods of his youth.

The man could only feel pain and loss and regret as he drove his car through this neighborhood. He paused in front of his old family’s house on 143rd. The small tree that he, as a boy, once climbed was now thick and towering. “That was thirty five years ago,” the man marvelled to himself. He could not understand how it was the same tree. The man could only feel loss and suffering. He could only cry as he turned back to the North on Foxbriar Drive. 

He travelled down the hill that he once coasted down on his red ten speed. He passed Steven Koch’s house, the kid with the coolest Diamond Back bike in town. Tears formed in his eyes and his breathing stopped as his body tried to allow the anguish of his youth to surface. He passed the house where he had hurled racial slurs at one of the only black children at his school. The middle-aged-man felt sick and lost. How could this even be the same place. How could he know it so well and yet also so alien?

He wanted to stop and beg the parents in the park to hold him. He wanted a chance to go back and do it again, this time with somone who could hold him. No. None of those words were doing it. There was nothing. There was no sentiment that could say what he felt. These were all just constructions with which the writer attempted to express the sickness and sadness that seemed to color the youth of the middle-aged-man.

The man felt fragile, and he knew why. This morning he lay in bed trying to accept that which was unacceptable. After his shower, he’d had an intimate experience with the water droplets and he had allowed himself to think thoughts that had never been acceptable. There was a tenderness in his being that morning. And then he’d asked himself to go out in to a world which he still perceived to be unaccepting. A world which he could only perceive himself as being separate from. He was seeing the world still through the eyes that he had inherited from his father. 

This was how his father felt. This was why he lashed out in fear. This was the world that the young boy had inherited. This was the vision of the world that had been passed down to the boy in his genetics. And this was how the middle-aged-man saw the world today.

The middle-aged-man passed by the elementary school that he’d attended from third to fifth grade. The low hanging sun prevented him from getting a good look. He continued this long detour, struggling to find his way back to his mother’s home. 

Was that hunger he felt? Probably not. But he passed a sushi restaurant and that’s what he wanted. Nash had handed him several twenty dollar bills before he’d left. He parked his car and went into the sushi and saki bar. He sat at a table. A man approached and offered to serve him. The man felt guilt. He did not have the money to be here. There was child support. Ther were his children. He ordered something off the menu to-go. He sat with his head in his hands at the table. There were only two other people in the restaurant. Why could he not allow himself a meal here? 

He took the yellowfin tuna out to his car, unsure of what to do with it. He ate a piece in the parking lot. He was worried that if he took it home that his mother would think he was spending his money unwisely. He brought the fish into his room, drenched them in soy sauce, and sat in a hidden corner eating the raw fish and carrots and pickled ginger and green onions. It was a hidden and guilty meal. He now felt hidden and guilty.

And this was when he noticed the text from Ted. 

Ted, the man who he’d found attractive as he attended the same treatment center at which he’d met the woman from Bermuda. The same treatment center at which he’d admitted to a room full of people for the first time in his life that he was a bisexual. The term seemed clunky to the writer as it sat on the screen. Bisexual? What the fuck does that mean?

“How the fuck can you finalize a life experience like this with a word like that? Thought the middle-aged-man. ‘bisexual?’ ‘Gay?’ How could a lifetime of pain and confusion be solved by these terms that seemed to be charged with the same insanity that had plagued the man for so many years. Was this anguish going to be solved by sleeping with a man? What the fuck? The middle-aged-man did not think so.”

The church service. His mother. Her friends. The well-to-do family with the caring son. How is it that all of these people and situations could carry so much pain for him. How is it that he found himself here today? 

While visiting his old neighborhood, he drove by another old friend’s house. There was the driveway where he had first asked Christ to come into his heart, where he had asked for a new life in the Spirit. There was the driveway in which he hoped he’d solved this problem once and for all. There was the driveway where he came to understand that everyone is born into sin, but we can receive a second birth in the spirit. There was the driveway where he first understood that he could be born again.

And so it came to pass that the young man of twenty one (or was it twenty two years?) came to ask the Lord Jesus into his heart. And it was on that night that the man’s friend, the Christian saxophone player, opened up the bible to the book of Romans, chapter 8, from which somehow the young man understood that if some kind of pledge of allegiance was made to the one and only true God, that he would no longer have to face that which was unacceptable in his own being, that part of him that was magnetically drawn to his fellow guitar player that night that he’d run away to the bathroom to splash cold water in his face. 

And it was on that night that he drove away from his friends house with the knowing that nothing would ever be the same again. And then the young man met the woman who had also repented from that which she had found unacceptable in herself. And it was upon this faith that Jesus had delivered them from their sins, that they were new creations now in Christ, that they got married and had three children and went forward into life with all the strength and devotion that they could muster.

The writer sat facing Eastward, reclined in his mother’s northern-most spare bed, the weighted blanket and the chromebook in his lap. He could hear his mother and her husband in the kitchen. It was 10:33. They would be going to bed soon. He did not know if he would be staying another day here. He placed the chromebook to the side and swiveled out of bed.

It appeared that the mother sat waiting for the son to enter. They spoke to one another for quite some time. The son shared his heart. The mother was accepting. It was that simple. The son felt sheltered in the mother’s acceptance. The son felt safe in the mother’s home. He was free to stay if he needed to stay. He was free to go if he needed to go. The mother accepted the son. The son felt the mother’s acceptance. There was room for healing in the acceptance that the son felt from his mother. They hugged. She gathered her things. She went to bed. It was fifteen minutes after Eleven.

The son made himself a cup of tea in the typewriter mug that the mother had bought in recognition of the son’s writing efforts, an herbal lemon. The son showered, not because he was especially dirty, but because it felt good. He lathered with the peppermint soap. He shampooed his thick hair and his greying beard. He rinsed. He squeegeed the heavy glass door.

He positioned the prayer mat facing the East. He gave thanks to the One living Being. He sensed the being in himself. He and the Being were one. It was that simple.

He thanked God for the richness of his experience. He thanked the Father for all that he’d witnessed as he had occupied this particucular form. He rose to a seated position on the mat, scooting the mat under his naked bottom to avoid the cold of the tile floor. These quiet moments of clarity were precious. He acknowledged the sanctity of life. He acknowledged the wisdom in his being. He acknowledged the great I AM.

He brushed his teeth. He retired to his bedroom for another rest. 

Day 19
6:48

The man awoke to an amber alert at some point in the middle of the night, an alarm sounding from his phone which, he presumed, announced the kidnapping of another child. The trauma announcing itself through the enhanced neural network which humans had constructed around their own consciousness.

He fell back asleep and when he awoke again he had a very specific vision of a worksheet, a blank worksheet with questions. Like you might find in a workbook, some kind of healing workbook. The questions were about music. There were large blank space. “What kind of healing actiities did you do with music today? What kind of songs? What other activities di you do that were self-care activifies?

And then the man got a picture in his head of Nash, the young man who’d showed him such care yesterday. And as he recalled his interaction with Nash he felt as if it was himself as a young man giving him the care that he could never give himself as a twelve year old boy. (the man was crying as he was making the recording)

The man also considered a question that his mother asked him last night that he was unable to answer immediately. “What do you need?” she asked

The question was paralyzing in a sense, or maybe the man just did not want to answer it too quickly, for he knew what a deep question this was and how misled one might be in the answering of this deep question. Or maybe the middle -aged-man knew what he needed but he was afraid to ask for it. And that morning as he lay in bed he wondered what kind of help might be available to him. What he really wanted was to go to a shaman and do a journey with ahuyasca or to visit Bruce in Vancouver Canada where he could be held somehow in conjunction with the medicine. 

Yes, that’s what he really wanted was to go visit Bruce. The stories that he read in Bruce’s book dismantled resounded with him in a deep way.  He needed to be held. To be helped. But how would this happen? How could he ask for something like this from his mother after she’d already given him so much?

The man was reminded that he still had approximately 12 hundred dollars in his bank account. He was not without without the ability to help himself. Option number three from the list he’d begun yesterday concerning his finances became, “spend everything to get to Vancouver and have some kind of deeper psychedelic healing experience with a trained professional.”

He composed a letter to Bruce as he lay under his covers:






Bruce,

I need to resume where we left off. I'm in need of help from someone who can walk me through. I have 1200 dollars left in my bank account. I have walked away from all the trappings of my life. Our creative and healing universe is out to help me; this is what my journeys have shown me.

I need to be held. My twelve year old boy is right here. He is scared of his father and he needs to be held somehow. The people here in the bible belt love him very much, but he does not believe that they know how to hold him, despite their good intentions.

He is looking for a place that he can be safe. I (this generative and nurturing adult) am looking for a place for us (the twelve year old boy and all the others here too) to encounter healing. This is the healing that I gave all that I had for well over twenty five years ago, the treasure hidden in the field for which I sold everything so that I could buy that field.

The 12 year old is here and others too. There's a nurturing mother and a father in me. There's a tree goddess. There's a writer. There seems to be many fragmented parts of my being. Some are scared and looking for a place to hide. Others are of a deeper and more helpful nature.

When I was a boy, my father was terrified by the fluidity and sensitivity of my feminine nature. He showed me how to crush that feminine nature in the same way that he had been taught by his father. She is trying to come up again. I am making peace with her.

I've been writing my own book, documenting in real time the healing journey that I've been on in the last 19 days, reflecting on the days prior, and delving into some of the trauma that brought me here in the first place. I've been reading your book dismantled along the way. 

My mother asked me last night, what do you need? I was unable to answer. This morning I find myself pouring myself out to you. 

I know you have a livelihood. I don't want to sound overly anxious or desperate. But this is just a call going out. This email is a prayer. Because I don't know how to get myself to you right now without it being a final move. Do you know American football? Like a hail Mary pass. You just throw it up into the end zone and hope that the right guy catches it. Is that where I am right now?

Anyway. This communication is a prayer.

James Taylor wrote a lullaby for himself and published it. He showed me how to sing sweetly and softly to the world.

Fred Rogers showed little boys (this little boy) who were being abused that it was okay to be a man.

Twenty five years ago, falling in love with the Jesus of the bible allowed me to have a passionate love affair with a man, another man with that same nurturing "feminine" spirit.

Your book empowered me to eat some mushrooms and see that the world is not near as solid as I thought I needed it to be. I have seen that I am a lot more fluid than I have been able to allow myself to be. 

I'm trying to become water, Bruce. I'm allowing myself to flow. 

It's like your poem...

There is also the heaven 
of facing the truth 
and declaring your outrage 
as you push back your chair 
from the table 
and just leave 
like a sage. 

While you're at it 
leave the Friendship 
the job 
the marriage 
The Party 
The Sermon 
the deal 
the family 
the Covenant of nice 
before it's too late 
Love it or leave it 

what I am proposing 
it's more radical than you think 
it will leave your life in shambles 
It is death to your so-called life 
love everything you do.

My life is in shambles. I'm in that place where G_d can work. I've no righteousness of my own left. I broke every promise I ever made. I left the wife. I disappointed the kids. I walked away from my job because I could no longer hold the form in a way that was not abusive to Self.

The medicine has connected me, once again, with the intensity of life that I left behind so many many years ago. I was unable to allow that which was unacceptable to arise from within.

Today I am saying "yes" to that which has been unacceptable. I am giving my Self permission (or rather I am agreeing with its Presence) to arise from within me. It's this feminine nature, Bruce. It's this fluidity that the my world told me was "fag"and "gay" and "buttfucker" and whatever else was screamed at me in shameful tones. It is that which I was told was terrible and unacceptable.
 It is that which my Father was scared of in himself and therefore felt compelled to threaten in his own child. It is that which cannot be labelled or named so easily. It is that which I do not feel that merely fucking a man will necessarily satisfy within me. It is the fluidity that is right there in the new testament where it says that in Christ there is neither male nor female. I'm not a bible scholar Bruce, this just showed itself to me.

So, from a shallower and more fearful perspective, this is a hail Mary pass (I'm not a football player). But, seen from a deeper view (the view of this generative and nurturing adult), this email is just a natural next step in the life of a poet who is trying to connect with the poem. Saying "yes" to the form and structure of all this. Reaching out to those "other" voices which are resounding with her. 

Can you continue to help me to allow this to arise? 

Practically speaking, I know, there are two online meetings that we need to do before I could come see you. So practically speaking I guess that's where I'm at. I am willing to use the  very last of my resources to come and see you in some effort to say "yes" to a healing that is somehow inevitable. This is what I am saying "yes" to in this email. I am saying "yes" To the continuation of this healing process.

Flow Watters
Is that name too confusing to walk into the world with?

Poetically speaking
Tree Goddess

After writing the email, the middle-aged man picked up his guitar in its case from where it sat by the front door. He seated himself on the great black and white and grey shag carpet that lined the floor of the living area that joined with his mother’s kitchen. He sat cross legged by the gently hissing gas fireplace and the blue and orange flames which flickered inside. He, once again started his anthem, the same songs that the angels had so willingly sung with him in his dream last Saturday morning. The same song he’d sung on Christmas morning, the life raft of form to which he clung as he thought he would surely lose his mind and have to take his own life.

“I am humbled. I am broke,” The man sang
I gave myself away by mirrors and by smoke
Gospel man with feet of clay
I gave myself away
I gave myself away…

Mountains move beneath my hands
The earth and sky obey my every command
Breathing underneath the waves
I give myself a way
I give myself away

Rise up. Rise up again
Deeper power, rising from within

God is hot and God is cold
I felt his angels give me meek and give me bold
Naked is the way I came
And so I give myself away
That’s how I give myself away

“Maybe this is why so much happens in the shower,” pondered the writer, “The nakedness of it all. We arrive in this world with nothing--completely dependent on the love and care of those around us to give us what we need. We make that first journey toward the Universal Nipple, that source from which we gather our sustenance. We are dependent on the mother to allow us to suckle. We are defenseless. We are vulnerable. We are fragile. It is this nakedness in the womb of the warm bath and the shower that reminds of where we came from. It remeinds us of the love that we once knew. 

And then we grow up and we live under the illusion that we have somehow escaped this reality, but at any moment Life may take us in a different direction. Maybe Life does not value our life in the same way we do. Is this not what the Christ showed us as he carried the cross up the hill, the same cross that he would be nailed to? Is this not the origin of the question, ‘Why do bad things happen to good people?’ Why did this bad thing happen to the One who gave life, love, and healing to all those around him? Why would God allow this Son to suffer like this? Was it because G_d does not value our lives in the same way that we do. Maybe we are just taking this all too seriously. Is that what Jesus was doing? Was he just not taking all of this too seriously. Was the Christ just not taking himself too seriously? Is that how we live a fuller life? By realizing that none of this is what we think it is? By realizing that there’s not really a problem here? 

“Where does on go to live this kind of life?” wondered the disciple. “Where is my band of brothers who are making love to this world? How do I find myself supported in this process as I phase in and out of these attempts to save my own life? Where is the Christ going? How can I follow her?”

The man was in this process. Maybe he’d already passed the point of no return. He did not know. How does one know when she has passed the point of no return? Is it only by trying to return, and then realizing that return is impossible? We know that we have passed the point of no return when our destination is all that is in our heart, when the only path is the path that is right below our feet. In our exhaustion we take one step after another in our, knowing that this is not the stopping place simply because there in not enough room on the trail to pitch a tent, not to mention that there is no water available at this particular point in the journey. Camp must be made where water is available. These are the lessons that the mountain had taught the middle-aged-man.








It’s the story of a Universal Shower



