Slow Moving River (an expression of my deepest compositional heart) 

Every Open Door

We Will Pray (mandolin)

I Am The Ocean

What We Do

Beyond The Tidal Pool

The Light In You

Mr Joe C

Eye of the Hurricane

The Dream Is Us

New Hope

Strange Primates: with "come back story" about Django Reinhardt. Django loses use of digits 4 & 5 in a fire, and then he revolutionizes guitar playing with only 2 fingers on left hand. 

--- DJANGO & STEPHANE: THE COMEBACK STORY ---

THE FIRE (1928):
Django was 18 when fire swept through his caravan. His wife made artificial
flowers from celluloid - highly flammable. The fire destroyed two of his
fingers (ring and pinky on left hand). Doctors wanted to amputate the leg.
He refused. Spent 18 months recovering. Had to completely reinvent his
guitar technique.

THE REINVENTION:
With only index and middle fingers fully functional on fretting hand, Django
developed an entirely new approach - using those two fingers for melody on
higher strings, damaged fingers for chord work on lower strings. He didn't
just adapt. He revolutionized.

THE PARTNERSHIP (1934-1953):
- Met Stephane Grappelli backstage at Hotel Claridge in Paris
- Both playing in Louis Vola's orchestra
- Started jamming between sets
- Hot Club de France members "discovered" them
- Formed the Quintette du Hot Club de France - first European jazz group
  to directly influence the American-born genre

THE SEPARATION (1939):
- WWII breaks out while touring England
- Django returns to France (spoke no English, felt safer with his people)
- Grappelli stays in England
- Don't see each other for 7 years

"NUAGES" (1940):
Django's composition became an anthem of the French Resistance. Recorded
with his "Nouveau Quintette" while Grappelli was across the Channel.

THE REUNION (1946):
After the war, reunited intermittently. Last recording together: Rome, 1949.
Django died in 1953 at 43.

FOR THE SONG:
The limitation becomes the innovation. The wound becomes the gift.
Fire takes his fingers. Fire gives him a new way to play.

--- END DJANGO NOTES ---

Old Landmark (loop pedal)

Smile

Every Little thing (instrumental)

Fell Through Me (formerly "Winter's Icy Grace / One More Knife-Cut Notch")

Plowboys Lament (my first song, 12 bar blues, about self-compromise with women)

Unafraid (from Rucker Brothers Album 2006) The name of the "Rucker Brothers" (Trav and Matt) represents Trav's connection to the music program at University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond Oklahhoma. The duo's name was inspired by one of Trav & Matt's common teacher's, Lee Rucker. The album was recorded in 2005 and 2006. Matt & Trav, together, with Dyron Beaty as producer, wrote, engineered, recorded, and mixed the Rucker Brothers album In Dyron Beaty's garage studio.

Brother Jack (veteran suicide awareness) (connect this song with Dan's Hyperbaric-oxygen healing  story. 

No Sway



Lord, we pray (guitar)

I will praise you (Eminor flatpick)

Deep River Blues (Doc Watson)

Shady Grove (Doc Watson)

Goin' Down This Road Feelin' Bad (Doc Watson)

Caravan (Duke Ellington)

My Brother (A joyful remembrance of my brother Kyle Martin Erwin 1978-2021



Slidey Fridey (instrumental)

Gave Myself Away

The Light in You

We Been Huntin'

A Boy Named Eli (Children music for adults and kids)

Little Wing (Jimi Hendrix)

Autumn Leaves (Jazz Standard)

Let Life Do the Livin'

Letting Go (of what we once knew, takes a faith beyond superstition. takes a hope that fills us with a hunger, that may never be satisfied)

Caprock

Promises Dear

Don't Have Much Important to Say (12 Bar blues, Ray Charles and Blues Brothers, Cab Calloway inspired)

Cruise Control (Maybe I could ride straight through to my destiny. Like a highway man the best of me seems to be on the road when my future's laid wide open)

Sword In Hand

L&tEoW

Got to Get Home

The Way You Did

Rock Island Line (Johnny Cash)




