Day 16

4:54AM



The Good Doctor

Making Peace with the Doctor

Making Love with/to the Doctor



These were the questions that came to the writer as he allowed himself to fall in love with the mystery on the third day of the year two-thousand-and-twenty:



Where is the Universal thread in our lives? How do we tell our own Universal story? Maybe the question is this: Can we hear the Universal story being told as we watch our individual life unfolding? As we with-ness (Bayo Akomolafe) this unfolding of our individual life, can we experience a connectedness to the One, this connectedness that is our birthright?



The writer, once again, stood at the crossroads. He recalled, once again, that his very name spoke to him of the crossroads. And so this is where he stood, waiting at the crossroads for a path that was unseen before, trusting that the non-path would show itself. He waited for the miracle, once again.



The writer began to fear the meaningless that might come. “What if I can’t see the miracle today?” he thought to himself. “Am I feeling some kind of added pressure now that the Doctor has joined my audience?” he wondered.



For now he understood that his friend, the Doctor, would be listening. And he wondered if he could relate to the Universal doctor this morning. The writer wondered if the Doctor would ever make it this far into this journey with him. 



And so it came to pass that the nurturing adult, the one from the North spoke up just then in order to help the writer get some perspective. “Whether your friend, The Doctor ever gets this far in the book is inconsequential, and here is why: The Doctor sat with you last night. The Doctor played music with you. The Doctor listened to your stories and the Doctor gave you all the love and respect that you hope to receive from any human being. The Doctor has shown you that he is willing to hold you. So, whether or not this particular Doctor ever reads these words is inconsequential. This is the way it must be. This is why we are dedicating this chapter to the Universal Doctor, and not just the Doctor who is your friend. Does that help you any to continue with this chapter?” 



The writer was grateful to the one from the North and the wisdom that he carried. When the one from the North spoke, there was always care for the individual being, and care for the whole as well. And so it was with a new confidence, having heard from the North, that the writer continued doing what he did best. He wrote.



The writer knew that the Doctor was reading for the potential healing found in these words, for the Doctor was genuinely interested in the well-being of his patients, as the Universal Doctor naturally would be. The writer, this middle-aged man, knew that the Doctor cared for his patients because he had experienced the Doctor’s love personally.



Their friendship began many years ago in an eighth grade english class (it felt good now to the middle-aged-man to have a deep-time relationship with a Universal Doctor. The middle-aged-man could actually feel that the Universe was out to help him. Praise be to the Universe that births the Universal Doctor). 



Okay, back to the eighth grade English class (English is capitalized, btw). Yes, it was with a light heart now that the writer approached this subject (no, not the subject of English, the chapter about the Universal Doctor).



Really, back to the Doctor



It was always over music that the man and the Doctor came together. And so this was exactly how they met on that day that their mutual friend, Cad (who they would both eventually understand to be a Universal Teacher), played music for the whole school. And so the two boys came together in English class that day after Cad’s riveting guitar performance and they marveled at what they’d just witnessed. And it was in that moment that they joyously discovered the music in each other. They came to understand that they were both aspiring guitar players themselves. It was then that they realized, with excitement in their hearts, that they might start playing guitar together.



And so it came to pass that the two boys began having musical interactions. The boy who would one day become a Doctor invited the other boy over to his house. The Doctor’s father played guitar. And the boy who needed to be held found a holding in the Doctor’s family, for there was a kindness and an acceptance in this family, the likes of which the boy had never experienced in his own. The boy felt a certain kind of patience emanating from the Doctor’s father one day as he played guitar with the two boys. It was a patience and a kindness that the boy had never felt coming from a father. There was a confidence in kindness. There was Love in those hands. The Doctor’s father reminded the boy of Andy Griffith. The boy felt as if he had stepped into the unconditional love that Andy from Mayberry had for his son, Opie. The boy did not know that such a patience and wisdom existed outside of Mayberry, but there it was.



And the Doctor’s family invited him to go to Sooner football games, after which they bought him a meal at a home-style restaurant where it was tradition to heap butter and sorghum on the delicious giant biscuits that they served. The Doctor’s family also invited the boy, who was now growing into a young man, to participate in family game nights where they played pictionary with the Doctor’s Aunt and Uncle. It was at the Aunt and Uncles house that the Doctor and the young man ascended a spiral staircase to a loft, where the they listened to vinyl records and learned to play dual guitar parts to a John Denver song, Early Spring, Late Winter (When everybody goes to Mexico). And it was in that loft that the young man experienced the same patience in his peir that he’d experienced in the Doctor’s father. The Doctor showed the young man how to play the chords while he played the lead. And it was in this way that the Doctor, who was still a young was bringing healing into the world with his music. He was bringing healing into the heart of a hurting young man, a young man who still had a lifetime of hurting to attend to. And so it came to pass that the two young men lingered in he attic, together discovering the joy of playing music. It was an innately good experience.



For a time the young man and the Doctor were nearly always together after school. They were best friends. The Doctor, therefore, came into an intimate understanding of the suffering that lived and breathed within the walls of his friends home, for the Doctor also spent some time at the young man’s home.



The Doctor sat with the young man’s family one night at the dinner table, eating a meal that was lovingly prepared by the young man’s mother. The father became angry and turned the table over. The Doctor stood up to the father as he raged, in an attempt to relieve his friend of the suffering that so often crashed downhill in a landslide upon the young man. 



And so it went that the young man and the Doctor continued their friendship. The Doctor started a band in which he played the fiddle. The young man played the bass. The Doctor convinced the one they called “Cad” to play guitar in his country band, although Cad was not too much interested in country guitar. And there were six of them in that band, each of them a precious key to the healing process that music was bringing into the young man’s life. This was the band that would eventually be booed and ridiculed at the Diamond Ballroom. Praise be to the Spirit which indwells Music, the form which teaches us to receive praise and ridicule alike! Praise be to the band of young boys who come together to practice this form! Praise be to the Doctor who shook his fiddle stick in the direction of this band of young boys, the Universal One who brought them all together!



And it was in this way that the Doctor came to help the young man finally leave his father’s home after the father returned home from his military training, enraged and insane after his wife had left him. This was the father who blamed the young man for his own misery. This was the father who would continue to blame his son for his own misery, The father who would continue to attempt to control and humiliat his son with name-calling and insults. The father who turned over the table. The father who ripped the shower door off its hinges and screamed at the naked young man. The father who chased his son around the evergreen tree in the front yard with threat of violence. The day the young man left home.



It was on this day, the day that he’d been chased around the tree, that the young man accepted the help of his friend, the Universal Doctor. The Doctor helped the young man pack his bed, his clothing, and other essentials. The two young men worked as quickly as possible, hoping the father would not return during this exodus, for they knew that he would become violent. The father, thankfully, did not return as they packed. 

The Doctor invited the young man to live with him and their mutual friend, the lead singer in their highs chool band. And it was with his tall friend, the singer, the one who shared the same name as the young man’s brother, that the young man went grocery shopping for the first time, tossing boxes of macaroni-and-cheese, cereal, and milk into the squeaky shopping cart, feeling as if he’d just escaped a long nightmare in the leaving of his miserable and abusive father. And this is how it happened that the Doctor helped his young friend to escape.



Strangely enough, it was at this point that the young man and the Doctor drifted further apart. Although the Doctor shared his room, the young man was not a very thoughtful roomate. And we know that this is how life often goes. We do not know why these things happen, but they do. It is relevant to say that there was now a deep and great suffering in the young man’s heart as he was trying to become an adult. He was lost and confused and hurting. It would get worse.



It is at this point in the story that the writer, once again, became aware that the Doctor may be listening. It is at this point in the story that the middle-aged-man becomes deeply aware of the pain that is still in him with the telling of this story. He becomes aware of the shame. He becomes aware of the stark difference between himself and the Doctor. He becomes aware of his own past, of his own inadequacies. In the context of the 12 step program, I guess one might call this a fourth-step-moment. The moment in a story where it becomes a “fearless and searching moral inventory.”



Yes, this writing had now become a lens through which to see witness the dysfunction of his own being as a young man. The writer watched as the writing became a confession of sorts. And he was grateful for that. He was grateful that he was getting this chance to admit to the Universal Doctor that he was not as good a friend as he would have liked to have been. In fact, there were many times where the young man had been resentful, uncaring, and hurtful. So there it was, the fifth step work of confession to ones’ self, to God, and to another human being of the deeds and words in one’s past that speak of anything less than Love.



For having left his father’s home, however unsavory the situation may have been, the boy had now become a man. The ceremony by which the man had left home was this: He was chased around a tree under threat of his life. And then, the Universal Doctor, brought his Ford Ranger over and helped the young man get out of an abusive household. That was the ceremony by which the young man majestically left home. And this is the ceremony that the middle-aged-man now accepts as the exact ceremony needed to move forward. Praise be to the father who gave his son the much needed push out of the nest.



So, the ceremony now completed, the boy had become a man. Unfortunately, the boy did not know how to be a man, and he acted accordingly. And this is the purpose of the fourth and fifth steps: that we are able to own, without shame, our own deeds and words. And the middle-aged-man was now ready to accept all of his actions that were less-than-Love. And in so doing he became willing to have God remove any character defects which may separate him from the Great Spirit. And then he asked God to remove these shortcoming. Praise be to the One Spirit who rises from within, eclipsing those fragmented aspects of our being that would continue to injure his loved ones otherwise.



The middle-aged-man knew how this worked. He had done it before. This chapter that he wished to devote to the Doctor had now become a step-working process. He moved on…



The middle-aged-man became willing to make amends to all those he’d injured. In this case it was the Doctor who the young man would be unable to appreciate. The very Doctor who the man would carry resentments for well into his adult life, not because the Doctor deserved these resentments, but because the man was unable to attend to the friendship. The man was unable to nurture and care for his friendship with the Universal Doctor. And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man continued in his healing process that day, using the tools that were provided to him by the One Life, the Universal Healing.



And so it came to pass that the writer now asked the Doctor, if he chose to ever read this far, for forgiveness. The middle-aged-man knew how it worked. He had seen it work before in his own being. “Dear Doctor, he said, please forgive me for my inability to tend to our friendship. Please forgive me for carrying resentments for you. I was a hurting human being and I was hurtful to you. Thank you for your valuable friendship. How can I make things right between us? What can I do to help?”



And it was in this way that the middle-aged-man continued his walk into freedom on that third day of January. It was in this way that the middle-aged-man cared for himself. It was in this way that, having encountered his own shame, he used the tools of the twelve step program to clean his own side of the street. For it was not his father that was responsible for cleaning the man’s street, it was the man himself. And so another miracle came to pass in the life of the middle-aged-man’s life. He was returning to his people, the people who had loved and cared for him, and he was trying to make things right. Praise be to the Bill W and the Universal Dr. Bob, the ones who crysallized the 12 steps in their current form! Praise be to the one who approaches step one, the step which can only be managed in absolute humility!



Amen 

Selah



Samuel Barber’s adagio for strings played in the headphones of the middle-aged-man. The image of the soldier on his knees in the movie, Platoon was in his mind. The man who reaches out for help. The one who needs assistance but who knows it is too late, for his comrades are airborne and out of harm’s way while he is left to die there on the ground amongst his enemies. He is forsaken. He is betrayed. He is abandoned. This is the image that came to the middle-aged-man as he continued this chapter in dedication to his friend, the Universal Doctor, The Doctor who listens to his patients, The Doctor who takes his time with each hurting soul. This is the Doctor that the middle-aged-man met in his youth, The Doctor who was now fully born into this hurting world. The Doctor who is a friend. The one who has answered the calling on his life. The one who passes on his calling to all whom he encounters.



It is only then, having done his step work and having acknowledged the Universal Doctor that had arisen within his childhood friend, that he is able to share the next bit. It was only then that he was able to share that which was before un-sharable. It was only after the step-work had been done and the acknowledgement of the risen Christ in his friend, that he could share the next part of the story. Yes, good Doctor, that is what I said, you are the risen Christ. You are the manifestation of the Universal Christ, the Cosmic Christ, the One. The Great Physician. You are blessed among men. This is what I see in you. This is who you are to me. I know you can accept this in all humility. In fact, you already have.



The writer now moved along with the telling of the story…



At his father’s house, just days ago, the middle-aged-man sat listening, bearing with-ness to the trauma that was working its way to the surface in this being (his father) who had once sheltered him and provided for him, as he also sheltered and provided for him on that day. The middle-aged-man came to be with his father. The son came like a hunter-gatherer, following the sustenance that life was providing for him. He came accepting of whatever gift life had to offer. He came in acceptance of the ceremony that his father provided for him, the ceremony in which the young man was chased around the tree, the ceremony in which his friend came in the Ford Ranger to help him remove his bed from the father’s house. 



It was with acceptance and gratefulness for everything that was that the middle-aged-man sat with his father that day, with-nessing the rising of his trauma to the surface. And it was as the trauma was rising that the father began to speak about the Good Doctor. The old man told how he had googled the Doctor’s name. He spoke of how he had listened to him speak of his passion for helping others. The old man, who had once turned a table over on the Doctor as the Doctor sat in intimate witness to the domestic violence, now had a deep and abiding respect for the Great Physician that he was seeing. 



And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man witnessed the love and respect that the father had for the Doctor. And it also came to pass that in the next moment the son heard his father tell him what a disappointment he had become. The father explained what a burden and disappointment it was that he was on medical leave again and what a shame it was that the son was neglecting his responsibilities to his family.



And this is how yet another previously undiscussed miracle came to pass. The miracle which was this: The son had no resentment toward either his father or the Doctor. The son, being grounded in the ONE SOURCE was able to witness the trauma that was rising from within his father and see it for exactly what it was. He knew suffering, because it was the very suffering that had plagued him for many many years of his adult life. He knew that the suffering that he saw in his father was the suffering that had been handed down for generation. It was the suffering caused by the trauma, the kind of trauma that actually changes our DNA in the phenomena describe by science as epigenetics. 



Because of the restoration that the son had been allowing to happen within himself, part of this process being that he was once again on medical leave, the son was able to continue thanking the father for all the gifts that he had been given. Because our Great Spirit was answering the prayer of restoration that was prayed for him by the gay black man at the psychiatric unit over a year ago, the son was able to witness the father’s suffering, and absorb his attacks without fighting back. It was in this way that the son also became the Christ who was crucified that day at his father’s house. 



And so it came to pass that the father crucified the Christ on that day and he acknowledged the risen Christ in the Doctor. And this is the miracle that the middle-aged-man accepted that day, knowing that the outcome of this miracle had much to do with whether his father had been able to purge enough trauma that day so that he could finally make a choice to stop blaming all those “others” in his life.



Could the father ever stop blaming his children for his suffering? Could the father ever stop blaming his wife and the mother of his children for his suffering? Could the father ever stop mocking the other? Would he find his way into the promised land, or was he bound to die wandering in the desert?



The son knew that these were all rhetorical questions. He was unable to save his father. The Doctor was unable to save his father. The writer paused at his work for a long moment. He pulled himself out from under the warmth of his covers where he sat leaning back bed. He lowered himself to the soft, carpeted floor. He allowed himself to become the water droplet. He communed with the wisdom found in the little droplet whose heart shone with the brightness of the sun. He allowed the water droplet to pray for his suffering father.



Selah



The water droplet knew no jealousy. He knew no anger. He knew no rage or fear. The water droplet only knew what it meant to be. He was willing. He was ready to evaporate. He was ready to sink into the soil. He saw his brothers and sisters in the stream just a short distance away and he knew that he was not separate from them. The water droplet saw the All in One and the One in the All. The water droplet was the stream. He was the soil. He was the thunderhead. He was the invisible evaporate. He was the rock. He was the sun which reflected within his own heart. He was the dynamic change, the evolution of consciousness. There was no separation in him. He was the One who was crucified. He was the One who was resurrected. He was infinitely deep. He was infinitely expanding. He was the Universe. He was the Multiverse. There was no story that was beyond him. There was no story that was too small for him to participate in. He simply was, and that was enough. There was no shame in him. There was no suffering. 



And this is the story of how the Doctor and the son worked together that day. This is the story of how the middle-aged-man and his father accepted the Life of the Doctor which lived in both of them. This is the story of the crucifixion of the Son. This is the story of the Great Physician, the resurrected One. This is the story of redemption. This is the song that was sung from the beginning. This is the story of how two young boys met in an eighth grade English class and started a band which nearly got booed off stage. This is the story of reconciliation between those two boys after they had grown apart. This is the story of the Patient (that one who comes to the Christ in need of being held and healed). This is the story of the Healer (the one who lays hands on the sick).



This is the story of how those roles are fluid. This is the story of how it’s not one way or the other. This is the story of how the great Patient brings healing to the Doctor. This is the story of how one role is no better than the other. And this is what the Doctor already knew. This is why the Doctor was trying so desperately to learn to listen to his Patients, because there was something in him that knew all of this. He knew that he had been honest in the answering of some greater call on his life, and his patients knew it to.



We are all engaged in this healing process. We are all watching the second coming of the Christ as he rises up from within us. And we know that it has very little to do with religion (although all forms have their place and serve their greater purpose). We have this innate sense that all the words and all the great forms and all the poems and all the yoga and all the separate fields of study are all pointing us toward the deepest reality. The One Reality. The Great I AM which is not limited to any particular canonized scripture.



This is what it means to spiral up, to die the death, to transcend reason, to become trans-rational, saying yes to reason while also integrating all other stages in the great spiral. This is what it means to become trans-personal, where the story of the Universe is seen in the story of one. This is what it means to be the Christ: The Universal story of death and resurrection expressed in that of the individual. Or, if need be, The Universal story of the seed that falls into the ground and dies that it may evolve into the being of the tree. Or, The Singularity which explodes into an ever-expading universe.



As we transcend the purely rational state, the state of being which we thought would surely deliver us from all the childish behavior, we incorporate into ourselves the entirety. We experience the Universe in ourselves and we Understand that which is out there to be a continuation of what we are experiencing internally.



And this is the blessing that I bring to you today, good Doctor. And this is the blessing that I bring to you also who is seeking healing. I present to you the continuum in which we all circle back to meet ourselves in one another. I present to you the snake which eats its own tail. I present to you the Mother and the Father in one being. I present to you the great fluidity, the wisdom of the water droplet an the majesty of the great thunderhead who also shines bright orange and white in the reflection of the setting sun. 



And so it came to pass that at 8:40 AM, as he sat in his mother’s home on medical leave, not earning a penny for himself, or for his children, or for the mother of his children, the writer continued the joyful process of closing this chapter. He continued in this glorious state in which he did not rely on his own righteousness to justify him. He continued moment after moment to accept the free gift of unconditional positive regard that Penny and so many others had given him over the years. He continued to acknowledge that free gift could only flow from the One Source. Neither he nor anyone else was capable of thinking that gift into existence. Although he saw it manifest in the Good Doctor, he understood that it was not the Doctor’s to possess. Although he saw the gift in himself, he understood that it was something that he must allow to pass through and then to come again. For he had witnessed himself trying to save his own life for so long, an effort that only resulted in the loss of his life. And it was only now, as he surrendered, as he said “yes” to the process of giving his life away that he was able to experience this freedom. 



For he had tried for so long to be the person that he knew he should be. He had tried for so long to be the person that the mother of his children thought he should be. He tried to be the person that his father thought he should be, and the person that he himself knew that he should be. He tried to whip himself into shape over and over again. He insisted of himself. He knew he could do better. He demanded from himself what he knew that he SHOULD be able to give. But he had failed. He had failed at being the husband that his wife needed. He had failed at being the father that his children needed. He failed at being the son that his father wanted. He had failed at his job time and time again as he found himself depleted and crying in his bosses office. He had failed in his faithfulness to the God of his youth. He had failed in his musical career. He watched himself fail so many times as a friend. He was not strong enough. He was not stable enough. He was not good enough, not even by his own standards. Yes, he was even unable to set his own bar and measure up to his own standards. And so he had utterly failed on all possible levels that he could understand as he sat cross-legged on his mothers spare bed. Or as he lived rent free in his friend Dan’s house in New Mexico. The failure that his father accused him of being was a reality.



So, what was his inheritance then? If the father had no blessing for him? If the father could not hold him or even stand for him to be in his home? What then, was the middle-aged-man’s inheritance.



His inheritance was the wisdom of the water droplet. His inheritance was the treasure that he had found in the field. The treasure that he had buried again and in his excitement at his discovery he sold all that he had and bought the field. His inheritance was in his heart to see healing in himself and to share that healing with the world. His inheritance was the friendship that was now being offered to him from a well that was flowing from an infinite depth within his being. His inheritance was the Christ that was rising up in him. His inheritance was in the evolving consciousness that had become more than a story. His inheritance was in the snake he’d seen when he took the “lethal dose” of mushrooms. His inheritance was the tree goddess. His inheritance was in the mother cougar and the wooly mammoth, and the tadpole. His inheritance was in Lucy, his deep primal mother, the Australopithecus primordial eve. His inheritance was in the singularity. It was in the breathing in and the breathing out. His inheritnace was in the infinitely simple yet somehow insanely impossible act of true self-acceptance—a self-acceptance that was free from any self-justification—self acceptance that was free from any self-righteousness. His inheritance was in the blessing that his father had no power to take away from him. His inheritance was right there at the center of his being, that which nothing or no one could rob from him. His inheritance was in the peace that he had searched for all his life in which he now found himself hopelessly immersed. His inheritance was in knowing that whatever was happening right now was just for now. His inheritance was that he did not feel compelled to make any promises, or blood oaths. His inheritance was in that, in this moment he found himself to be his own best friend. His inheritance was in the very breath he was drawing in that moment, the strawberry that Pema had showed him years ago. His inheritance was in the tigers above him, and in the tigers below. It was also in the mice that were chewing on his vine as this was the day that he was legally obligated to give his wife child support which he did not have enough of. His inheritance was in the possibility that his children’s cars might be repossessed. His inheritance was in the ceremony that his father gave him upon leaving home. His inheritance was in the curses that he’d spoken over the mother of his children the day before. His inheritance was in the relationship with his son-in-lay in which they communed around the great medicine. His inheritance was in everything that was. His inheritance was in the waiting at the crossroads. It was in the non-path. His inheritance was in the simultaneous holding of the suffering and the joy. His inheritance was in the moment to moment walking out of every step that he took. His inheritance was in the fabric that he found to be supporting him in this moment. It was in the feral cats at the lake as the sun was setting. It was in the hobbled man who cared for the feral cats. It was in the moments of fearful meaninglessness. It was in the roll of quarters that his father gave him to navigate the turnpike. It was in the one-hundred dollar bill that his mother laid on the dresser that once held his father’s playboy magazines. It was in the violence that he’d once perpetrated on innocent animals and the daughter that put her hands on her hips and commanded him to stop. His inheritance was in the fundamental logic that lead him to love his enemy, Satan. His inheritance was in the clam chowder and the oyster crackers that his mother made on New Years day. His inheritance was in the music that he’d made with the Doctor last night.



Yes, the Great Physician that had visited him last night. The one with which he’d shared the joy of his salvation. The one who listened so that he could help his patients find healing. Yes, good Doctor, it is for their healing and ours that we find ourselves here now, engaged in these words. It is by these words, which have been constructed as an altar, that we find ourselves answering this calling on our lives. It is here that we say “yes” to that which we have already said “yes” to a thousand times. It is here that we surrender, finally, to that which has always held us. It is here that we fully understand the impetus behind all the world religions. It is here where the History of God is made clear. It is from here where your own book is written, the one which will outline the Universal nature of God’s reality despite the shortcomings of all religion.



This is the path that no one can walk away from without denying his own humanity. The path on which we discover our own divine identity, as you already have, Good Doctor. This is where the fruits of the seeds of love you have sown are delivered to you so that you may host the big party. This is where you accept only that which is real from all the greatest stories that you have ever heard. 



This is only that which you have already seen is inevitable. This is only the truth that you already know to be true within yourself. This is the reality which never demands obedience. This is the reality that dies on a cross for its brother. The mature “Paji,” if the rest of the audience will allow me to make an inside reference (please excuse my indulgence dear reader, but this chapter, after all, is dedicated to the Doctor. Yes, the Universal Doctor, but the Universal which is imbedded in an individual. So thank you for your forgiveness, dear reader).



And this Universal Doctor is also, of course, dedicated to the Universal Patient. He is dedicated to all those “others” who may still be reading, but who hopefully, as this chapter slowly comes to an end, are convinced that the Universal Doctor also lives in them.



It was in this way that the impossibly talented writer wrote a love letter to his old friend while also summoning the Universal Doctor in all of us. It was in this way that the miracle came to pass. It was in this way that the writer found his own healing that day. It was in this way that the writer was held. It was in this way that the writer hoped that you, dear reader, were also experiencing the same holding. It was in this way that the writer finally finished the chapter.



Praise be to the One who holds us all. 



Amen

Selah





Day 16

12:05PM



The connection between boredom and meaninglessness



A new foundation for living and being in this world is being established



Lesson 14

“God did not create a meaningless world”



What love did not create does not exist



Love is the only power there is



1 minute x 3 …..God did not create________and therfore it is not real



God did not create a meaningless world



Day 16

1:24PM



The writer sat on a park bench at the zoo. A young family of four passed him with a stroller.

“Did you know ostriches are from the desert?” said the mother to her six year old daughter.



A helicopter helicoptered in the distance.

A bushy tailed squirrel foraged in the dry brown leaves.



The zoo was a place where the man might become nostalgic. He hadn’t realized that as he decided to come. He only felt joy in his heart as the idea formed in his being.



Green ivy clung to brittle deciduous trees.

A single bird called in the distance.

Children cried loudly to their parents.



“we need to find the turtle that we always take your picture on.” Said a young parent, “Jackie do you need to pottie, because if you do we need to do it, because there’s a bathroom right here. Say cheese! One, two, three, cheese!”

“The ostrich is over there Daddy! Right over there,” proclaimed a little boy.



The writer laid down on a bench, using his laptop bag as a pillow and took a timeless nap. “how long was I sleeping?” He wondered.



The memory of his father’s attack of two days ago still lingered with him. “How many times has that happened?” the writer wondered.



Another family of four passed by—a little girl wearing a pink jacket with a back bow in her hair caught a ride in the stroller. A little boy in a blue, hooded jacket ran along side.



“I wanna seee the Rhinos!” cried a boy.

We’re not seeing Rhinos,” shouted another.

“Guys, heres an ostrich, do you see the ostrich?” asked a passing mother.



The writer had yet to see the ostrich. He turned to look for the ostrich. It was not in his line of sight.



“Over here’s an ostrich!” the mother called to her brood.



A little boy in a green jacket was crying. His sister put his arm around his shoulder.



“I wanna see a Rhino!” humphed the little boy who wanted to see a Rhino.



A woman in stretchy pants and a headband pushed a stroller up the hill. Her hair was a black fountain on top of her head.”



“I wanna get on that elephant!” cried a boy.

“Me too! I wanna get on that elephant too.”



“Is it true what the course in miracles says, that there is no size difference in miracles,” the writer wondered. 



“I’m riding Dumbo! I’m riding Dumbo!” shouted a boy in an orange coat.

“Are you ready to go?” asked the Dad.



A brown squirrel climbed down a tree trunk.



When the writer came to the zoo alone, his thoughts gravitated toward freedom and captivity. Today it was the galapagos turtle that started it. The writer was careful to not anthropomorphize the lovely girl, that ancient reptile who, for some unknow reason, plodded from one end of the indoor enclosure to the other. “Where is she going?” asked the writer. “Why is she going? How does she process her situation here? Is there something in her that is aware of her captivity? Her front leg moved first, then the opposite back leg began its forward motion before the front was finished. Then the mirror image happened with the other two legs. It appeared to be a lot of work. The writer’s sense seemed to be confirmed when she collapsed half-way to where the writer imagined was her destination. After several minutes, the writers assumption was confirmed when she resumed her contralateral movement across the smooth floor.



The writer was glad that he was not compelled to assume that she was miserable in her captivity. He considered the possibility that she may be completely content in her current environment.



“No sticking your tongue out!” shouted a mother, “Hold on. Stand right there. I’m too far away. Stand still. No sticking your tongue out. 1 2…”

“Take the picture, mom,” said the woman’s daughter.



The crispy leaves that remained in the trees quivered and sang a winter song as the wind gusted. Traffic made sounds like a mechanized ocean from the streets outside the zoo fences. A jay called shrilly from up above, warning a squirrel that was perched directly above the writers head.



“This would be the place to do it,” shouted a mother.



“This time it’s Christmas!” yelled an excited girl as she ran for the elephant sculpture.



A brown squirrel ran for the trees as a group of children approahed.



“You scared ‘em!” cried one of the boys, searching for the squirrel.



“We gotta go, Grace,” commanded a mother in a blue sweatshirt.



The writers finger became cold and stiff over the keys on his laptop. “God is hot and God is cold,” he thought to himself.



The miracles never ceased.



The writer wondered if his father would show himself soon.



“That’s why you stay on the path,” said a mother in a slick purple jacket, “That’s why you stay on the path. Come on, Sawyer or we’re not going to have much time at the park.”



Day 16

2:35PM



The writer found himself in sitting by the inddoor orangutan enclosure. Seven thick logs were arranged and bolted together in such a way as to provide the long-haired primates with maximum climbing opportunity. A thickly woven canvas cradle was lashed to several of the logs. Two orangutans were inside. One hulking girl who rocked with her back to the observers, and another young one with a Beatles haircut who paced the perimeter.



Just then the middle-aged-man spotted a silver back lowland gorilla in a separate outdoor enclosure. There was also a juvenile, and a much younger child with him too.



The gorillas roamed about for a a short while and then disappeared around the corner of the enclosure. The writer moved from the orangutans and set up camp in the sunlight patiently awaitin another opportunity to sense the presence of these massive, noble creatures. A human toddler vocalized strangely primal sounds of distress somewhere on the other side of the echoing building. The tone of the toddler’s cries transformed in tone, as if maybe he’d been given what he wanted. The distress calls quickly transmuted into an obviously satisfied vocalization. Then, just as suddenly, his distress cries returned with the same intesity as before. The sun warmed the writers face as he sat waiting for the glory of the silverback to return.



Reverence is what the middle-aged-man was feeling for the animals today at the zoo. Earlier, he’d answered a tiger’s call. A crowd of people were gathered there when he arrived at the cage. The young male was moaning. He appeared discontent somehow. “What does he want,” the man asked himself. 



Children laughed at his noises. The tiger rose from his position on his stomach and walked around his cage. The frequency of his bellowing increased. As he entered his indoor enclosure his roars were amplified through a megaphone of man-made rock. The moans stopped momentarily as he disappered into his cave. The middle-aged-man waited patiently as if he were waiting for Moses to come back down from the mountain with a message from God



The crowd dissipated. Then the moans resumed. They grew in intensity as he emerged from the tunnel. The man’s reverence was intensified as the amplified roars from the tunned evoked a primal fear within him. He wondered if the laughter and the mocking comments that he heard from some of the observers was merely masking their fear. 



Just then, a seven-year-old boy wearing a black fleece jacket exhibited a response that seemed appropriate. He shook with fear and ran for the refuge of a nearby adult. The large woman tried to explain how he shouldn’t be scared because the tiger was in a cage. Then she looked at the middle-aged-man and apologized for her grandson’s behavior. “He probably ruined it for you didn’t he?” 



“No,” thought the middle-aged-man, “seemed just about right to me. That’s what the little boy in me was doing too.”



In his early twenties, the young man had a similar experience with a tiger at the zoo in which he sensed his restlessness as he watched him pace back and forth in a small section of his enclosure. He wrote a poem which he could now only remember in part.



“Angry old man tiger

Orange and black

Stripe-ed boredom”



In connection with his ACIM readings, the writer was considering a possible connection between boredom and meaninglessness. “Is boredom something that happens when we are unable to sense any meaning?” he pondered, “And if so, what is an appropriate response to our relationship with the sense of meaninglessness? If it is true, as ACIM states that ‘God did not creat a meaningless world,’ then what is the appropriate response as one is unable to connect with the innate meaning? Just because there is meaning doesn’t mean that we are always going to sense meaning, does it? If I can’t sense any meaning does that necessarily indicate that I am out of touch with the divine. Impossibly difficult questions like these were part of the reason why, years ago, he had decided to start ‘Edging God Out (EGO).”



It was not a stretch for the writer to imagine that the Tiger in that cage was having a difficult time finding an appropriate expression for his natural wildness. It seemed that his bellowing must be an indication of some kind of search, that he must be bellowing about something, or for something or someone (another tiger perhaps?). 



But in this cage how could his needs be met? The writer was still making an effort to avoid projecting his human consciousness on to the tiger, but it did appear that the roars were a call for something (some unmet need?). There was a very real restlessness, was there not? Given, his restlessness may not be a human restlessness, but it seemed to the writer that there was indeed a restlessness present. 



He had learned from the feral cats that day on the porch during his LSD trip that he was not accurate in the reading of feline emotions, however he had only misread the brand of their emotion, he had not placed emotion where there had been none. The writer assumed that the feral cats were condescending toward Eli because of his domesticity, but what they were really exhibiting toward the dominant cat was caution. They were on guard, because at any moment, they knew that Eli’s dominance may manifest itself toward them. Eli, the big cat.



So the writer felt safe enough to assume that some kind of restlessness was present in the tiger, although he could not be for sure what brand. And possibly, it was not the relatively small enclosure that produced the massive cat’s restlessness. Maybe the same restlessness would occur in the wild. However, in the wild the tiger was free to wander in search of the relief for whatever his longing was. Here, in this cage, he would only meet the faces of nervously laughing children, which did not seem to be currently satisfying this young male tiger with the big big balls protruding from behind his tail.



The writer acknowledged the southern nature. He looked to the wild-indigenous one. Is this who he was encountering in himself as he revered the tiger? Was he witnessing an expression of this wild-one who was trying to find a way to have his needs met? Is this why he was growing his beard? 



If there was anything true about Bill Plotkin’s mapping of the human psyche in the four cardinal directions, then it was essential that all four aspects of the human psyche were nurtured. Is this what the writer had been encountering all of his life as he went by himself to the zoo, as his thoughts gravitated toward freedom and captivity? Was he trying to make peace with his southern nature. And was it the writer’s southern nature that was truly the weakest in him?



The silverback and his companions returned. There were four of them now. The silverack took a poition in front of the display glass. He sat, looking up into the space above the observers as they stood behind the thick and expansive glass. Then pieces of food were tossed by some unseen hand from above. One by one, the gorilla fielded the morsels like an experienced short-stop who ate his baseballs. The four-hundred-pound gorilla waited like such a good boy for every piece of food. He always caught them in mid air. They went straight to his mouth. The other gorillas gave him ample room, they knew it was not their turn.



It was then that the writer looked down and he saw ants crawling on the other side of the glass, inside the enclosure with the gorillas. He watched the ants crawling over blades of grass and rocks, and over dirt. Then he noticed that there were also ants on his side of the glass. This seemed curious to him. These ants looked the same as each other, the ants within the enclosure, and the ants outside the enclosure. The writer imagined that they were most likely from the same colony. Yet some were inside the enclosure and some were outside the enclosure. 



He wondered what the path was for the ant who needed to get from one side to the other. Certainly, it was a much longer journey than the distance that separated the brothers and sisters just then. All the other humans were engrossed in the activities of the gorillas. But the writer sat in the warm sunlight observing the ants, absorbed in the implications of captivity, wondering what the journey was like from one side of the glass to the other.



Day 16

5:11



And so it came to pass that the second of the two mountains which inhabit this story came into the writer’s vision. But, he was brought first, back to the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. The cabin in the forest where he had the vision of the Christ Moth. The cabin in which he had integrated the religious form of his youth, the form which he had been unable to return to, but now came back to him in a Cosmic, integrated fashion. The cabin in which he heaved and sobbed with great tears as he held on to a teddy bear still only half-born from a log as he chanted desperately, “You are a strong bear, a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear.” This was the cabin in which he had made a deeper peace with his heavenly Father, his own father, and also himself as a father. The cabin in which he was able to accept that about himself what was before unacceptable. The cabin in which he was able to consume the two six dollar pastries that, just the night before, could only bring him shame. The cabin where his sorrow and shame had been transmuted into deep love and acceptance. The cabin in which he had first made a simple call for acknowledged in this one word with a question mark afterward:



“Father?”



And then afterward, after the call for acknowledgement, he had discovered the power of the silence between the call and the response. It was there at the cabin that he felt the presence of the father within him in that space after the call was made. And then, the gentle friendliness of the father’s response as he simply acknowledges the son:



“Yes, son?”



It was this connection that he had made with the Father that night at the cabin whih sustained him recently as he subjected himself, just two days before, to what in the past would have been a devastating attack from his earthly father. As his father expressed his ultimate disappointment in the son’s weakness. As the father accused him of stealing his cell phone. As the father told his son that he was afraid that the son would murder him, when it was only the father who had told his son of his desire to put a bullet in his head and also into the head of the woman who bore his two sons. 



Without this affirmation from his heavenly father that he’d received at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest, the son would not be standing today, he was certain of that. Even with the affirmation from his heavenly Father, there had been times when the son felt fearful that he would not be able to recover again from such a blow, that he would surely contract and then crumble like a brittle statue.



And that next morning, before he would sit to enjoy the pastry that his father would have loved, if you recall, dear reader, the man went for a walk. And on that walk he sang kumbaya. “Someones singing, my Lord. Kumbaya”

“Someone’s crying, my Lord. Kumbaya”

“Someone’s dying, my Lord, Kumbaya”



And then the camoflauged dog ran at him from across the field barking madly. And the son simply stopped the dog in its tracks with just a couple of appropriately forceful syllables. The dog turned sideways as if he’d encountered an impenetrable wall. And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man simply went on his way, resuming his song, resuming his prayer. “Come by here, my Lord. Come by here,” A simple camp song that held all the power that was needed for the moment.



And this all came to pass even before man started documenting this journey sixteen days ago. And it was sixteen days ago that the distress call went out, because documentation of this journey was apparently necessary, if for no one else but the middle-aged-man. But it was in this interaction with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) that the writer began to find his heart for you, Dear reader. And you, my beloved reader, have witnessed the birth of a voice as you have accompanied him on this journey. And hopefully, my dear reader, you have witnessed just enough the death of the author that you have also experienced a salvation of your very own. That is what the writer now hoped. He hoped that you, dear one, have found something much greater than these words can contain as you have accompanied him on the journey that is now documented in the pages of this, dare I say, book?



The book that the writer knew would be impossible to write. The miracle that the non-theist former Buddhist monk asked from this dying author. Praise be to the Buddha and also to the who cuts his throat on the road when he meets him! 



Dear reader, have you seen your own Universal journey in the journey of this middle-aged-man. This was the writer’s hope as he began the last leg of this process. This was his hope, that as you followe him along this path, that you too have been waking to a deeper reality. That you have somehow benefitted from the tranparency and trust that have been given as a gift today to this writer. This writer who has no income. This writer who lost all that he said that he held dear. This writer who broke all the promises that he ever made so that he could find the promise that could only come from inside himself.



Dear reader, please take a moment to rejoice with this writer who has come to treasure your company. Please take a moment to feel the gratitude of this writer, who for a brief moment was able to transcend the boundaries of space and time and speak with you right where you sit. Please, dear reader, will you take a moment and sense the gratitude that the writer feels for you now as he is in communion with you.



We stand now, dear reader, at this crossroads together, this unnamed writer, this anonymous soul. We stand now together, unsure of what exactly is to come, but somehow sure that there is a deeper reality than what we have been presented to us. For those of us who have not been held as we needed. For those of us in need of healing. For those of us who are in need of a great physician. I say, “yes.” I say, “yes” to you and I ask you to accompany me for the rest of the way. For we have come so far together. I have cried with you. I have cried for you. We have wept together, my dear reader. Please, I ask that you stay with me for a little while longer. Let us discover whatever there may be left to uncover. Let us together, find this treasure. Let us together, buy that field.



“Father?”

“Yes, Son?”

“Can I climb that mountain?”

“You can try, Son. You can try. Lets climb it together, one step at a time”



Day 16

6:07 PM



Dear reader, you have seen me. You have seen my suffering. You have seen my joy. I have shown you my rage. I have not told you everything, but I have given you enough to know that I am fully human, and that I am also divine. I ask for you now to give yourself to my company. Please add yourself to this journey as I communicate with you now across the bounds that we are actually not obligated to be bound by.



For if these words resounded with you, and you have come this far, you know that you were also with me in the writing of these words. We know that you were also working out your own salvation with fear and trembling. This is what we know together. Know that we have been working this out together. You are not alone, dear Reader. You are not alone.



We have discovered this voice together, as a result of the trusting work that we have all been up to.



