Day 4

3:46 AM



And so it came to pass that, after several hours of sleep the writer rolled from his bed with joy and anticipation in his heart. “Did you get enough sleep?” asked the generative nurturing adult. “I got as much sleep as I could get,” said the writer.



The writer resumed his position behind the marble-top island, in direct view of his Self in the mirror to the North (or was that a view of his self?). “Is it Self observing self in the mirror?” wondered the writer. “Or is it self observing Self?” he wondered again. 



The writer was not at all certain that his questions were pertinent. Certitude, as he understood it, was a spiritual block. As a young man, it had been the lyrics of Lennon and Mcartney that had first showed him the value of a question over the answer. 



And so it was that in those early morning hours before the Sun rose over the great adobe house, that the writer, once again, made of his self an offering. Or an offering of himself. Or he made his self an offering to Self (he wasn’t sure if that was even possible). Or was it his Self that was making the offering. One way or another, he had committed himself to this process (he was doing..or rather, non-doing the impossible)...He had committed his Self...or was he merely acknowledging and accepting the commitment that Self had made to him so very, very long ago? Could self agree to this dissolution? Can the external aspect of being agree to its own dethroning? In other words, are the external parts of our being, those “ego” parts, capable of walking themselves to their own death, or is it the Self that takes that walk with the ego in-tow? Those were the questions that the middle-aged man was asking himself (or rather, the questions he asked his Self) this morning. 



Or, maybe it was the generative-nurturing adult who was posing these questions to the middle-aged man (according to Bill Plotkin the generative-nurturing-adult is just one aspect of the Self). Or was it this “writer” who was asking these questions as his fingers managed the the physical work on the keyboard? “Writer”, that curious being, the one who observes and comments. “And where is the man at the cabin this morning,” the writer wondered out loud. “Is the man still at the cabin?”



It was just as the oracle had foretold through the Universal Eileen in her letter. All these aspects of the middle-aged-man’s being were somehow in observance of one another, or at least being observed by Self. And so it was that he stood before his own image in the large mirror in the Santa-Fe style house, in the little-college-cowtown where the sky had turned red over seventeen years ago just moments after his youngest daughter, Emma Kate (pure healing) was born into this world by the great snake woman, his writing teacher.



The young man, over seventeen years ago, just weeks before he and his family would make their move to this little town, had a sense about his youngest daughter. He felt that he understood something about her needs. Our young aspiring Jedi, Luke, felt that he understood his youngest daughters needs. This young man who was still trying to live out his hero’s journey after having brought three children into the world.



This creates a question. What happens when Luke has had three children? Can he truly be Luke any longer? Can you imagine Luke trying to have a light saber duel with his Vader while three children are watching, asking for sippie cups, each struggling to receive the proper amount of care and attention in order for them to individuate? There’s a lot more skill that would have to go into such a battle. Fortunately, the Generative-Nurturing adult had risen that morning with the intention of carrying all of God’s children into the promised land. So naturally, they would all end up wandering in the desert.



The young man (our Luke), over seventeen years ago, had the intention of somehow taking his family and getting on the road. This was his vision of the promised land, or rather his vision for reaching the promised land. As poorly planned as the middle-aged man’s recent hitchhiking trip had been, Luke’s exodus plan had far less chance for success. Luke had a red Dodge Caravan with a substantial oil leak. Luke had a friend who was going to let him use his pop-up trailer. Luke’s van, however, had no trailer hitch, which was obviously something that God would just have to work out. 



In prayer and meditation, Luke sat at a fountain in downtown Oklahoma City, in front of the bus station. He prayed for direction for his life, direction for the life of his family. Luke’s Everything had been burned by the Stormtroopers, his Aunt and Uncle toasted to a crisp, their body’s charred, as they tried to escape the flames. 



Or was it that the young man was a storm trooper who had recently defected from the Imperial Army (a more recent retelling of the hero’s journey in another Star Wars story)? You see, the young man had just ended a one year long study of the justice system. He had recently abandoned his relatively new profession as a police officer.



Please, dear reader, allow me to expand on the most recent life experiences which had brought the young man to such a state of desperation. What brand of anguish, what kind desolation had come upon this young man. What might lead a young husband and father to believe that he could lead his family into a nomadic life. 



Imgaine with me, dear reader, the state of chaos that the young man was about to lead his family into. A family of five (which now included an infant) setting off on a destination-less journey in a molding pop-up-trailer towed by a hemorrhaging van which was, at this point, still unequipped with its trailer hitch. 



Please, dear reader, imagine the desperation in a man’s heart that would lead him to this spot. Do you know American football, dear reader? What would lead a young man to this hail-mary pass into the end-zone of life. “Let’s just throw the ball up in the air and see what happens,” was the young man’s reasoning. “God will catch the ball. God will catch the ball.” 



It is obvious now that his father-in-laws prophesy was coming to pass. His family would be devoured by the devil, that roaring lion who was raging through the land, just looking for a sweet and tender young family on whose flesh he could feast as their bones caught crunching between his teeth, those sweet little bones of his fragile little ones. 



The tender flesh of those pudgy little feet that the young man had become so accustomed now to kissing. Those dear little ones that made him laugh so deeply. Those little ones who called him “daddy.” Those delicate little people that the man seemed so intent now on passing his trauma to. Of course, this was not the young man’s intent. The young man was trapped in a cyclic traumatic event that had been played over and over again throughouth the generations.





The young man tried to join. A band. The U.S Army. The church. A marriage. A family. But his efforts to join ALWAYS lead him right back to the rejection that he carried so deeply in his own heart. He was compelled by his own rejection to reject the “other” before they had a chance to reject him. Also, this wounded child within his being needed him to reject any challenging circumstance which would might lead to everyone being able to see how deficient he so painfully knew himself already to be. 



In the church they tried to cast this demon out of him. It would not go. Now, the very people (yes, that’s what they were, they were people)—those very people that he had adopted as his spiritual family, appeared to him as just another extension of a sick, cruel, and unjust system. A system that he could not belong to, no matter how hard he tried.



The young man at this point, could still not grasp, he had no way of knowing, that his own little family was requiring more of him than he would ever truly be capable of giving with a heart of love. The young man’s very life was being torn from him, which he was still trying to make sense of in the context of a fundamentalist bible-belt Christianity in which “once you come to know Jesus, everything ought to be just fine, son.” The young man was not finding everything to be “just fine.”



As a police officer, he found himself retraumatizing those “others” whom he had so genuinely wished to serve. He had become unable…or possibly unwilling to perform his duties as a police officer. He refused to be the hand of a justice system which he now perceived to be unjust. He resigned his badge, and his gun, and the health insurance plan for his family, and the only job he’d ever had in which he did not have to empty the trash.



He had come to this conclusion one night while on duty. 



“headquarters to officer 55,” dispatch chimed over the radio in the young man’s squad car.



“55, headquarters,” responded officer 655.



“When you get a chance, I need you to come by the station. You got a phone call. Over.” The mic clicked.



“55, headquarters, 10-4. I’ll be right there.”



Officer 655 returned reported promptly to the station and retrurned the phone call. It was the county jail.



“Apparently, they have some information for you about that arrest that you took in earlier,” sang the young woman in the front office, the young woman was the dispatcher who he’d just spoken to on the radio a few minutes ago.



“Thanks,” said officer 655, “I’ll give them a call.”



The young officer with the neatly trimmed haircut and the black glock 40 on his side dialed the number on the telephone that hung from the wall in the hallway.



“Yeah, this is officer 655 from Nichols Hills PD. I got a call from this number earlier.”



“Oh yeah, 55. I just wanted to tell you the good news!” sang the lady detention officer on the other end of the phone (was her name Lisa?)



“Good news?” responded officer 655 with an appropriate calmness in his voice.



“Yeah, said Lisa. We found a roach in that lady’s vagina,” she announced gleefully (yes gleefully as the writer has always recalled).



 “A roach?” questioned officer 655. He was confused.



“Yeah!” Lisa was overwhelmed with joy now, “We found a little bit of marijuana in that ladies vagina. We found a roach in her vagina! I just thought you’d like to know.”



“Okay,” said 55. “Thank you.”



“Alright, well, you have a good night officer,” said the detention officer who was obviously having a good night herself.



“Yes, good night,” said officer 655 of the Nichols Hills Police Department.



And it was after this phone conversation that the young man found that he had no heart for the business of policing. It was in this way that the young man felt that he was perpetrating a great evil deed on the people which he had truly wanted to serve. It was this through this phone call that he saw himself as the hand that had searched a woman’s vagina and gleefully found a little bit of marijuana. He was unable to reconcile himself to that reality. And so he left



How much of all of this is true? It is hard to say, isn’t it dear reader? But this is the story that now lives in the writers memory. This is the hero’s journey as recorded in the heart of this one man. This is the story of one man who was desperately searching for his identity as the Universal Man, The Christ. This was the struggling young man who desperately wanted to be a Jedi…or a cop…or a rock star…or a great Dad…or the Man of the House…He just wanted to have some kind of authority over something. 



But, the young man would not find that authority here. Not here at the police station. He would not find his authority while he was wearing this uniform. Not with this gun on his side. This was not the Authority that had been shown to him by his Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This was not his path. He had learned everything that God wanted to show him in this place. 



And this is the song of revolution that was born in our young man’s heart that day. And this song would burn in him with much justified anger and resentment. This song was born from what he’d seen. From what he’d experienced. This song was born from the path that God had set him on:



“I know everything that I need to know about this shit,” sang the young man, “Thank you very much for that. I’m fucking done now. Someday all the people will see how we lived in slavery, this will go down in history. Only hind sight is 20/20, mother fuckers! All the pastors from their pulpits show us how to shape and form this sacred cow. They say ‘this is what you should and should not do, trust me son, I will civilize you!’ You want me to serve your God? While on holy ground you trod? Well,” sang the young man, “The whole damn world is your façade! Hey! I’ve got news for you. It’s the poor man’s workin’ while the rich man’s jerkin’ him round. The men who sit on thrones so high, they don’t send their own sons to die for their God, for their country, for their sweet peace of the American Pie! It’s for a revolution that I prophesy! For ears that hear and seeing eyes. The spirit of Christ must testify against all injustice. So put down your bible. Pick up the Word. Follow the calling that you have heard. Sell all your shit and give to the poor, cause that’s all the good that your shit is for! You’ve got to burn. Burn, baby burn! Taste once again the spirit of Life, fall on your fiery sword. You’ve got to burn. Set yourself on FIRE! Burn. Burn. Burn. Burn. Burn.” Chanted the young man.



Burn and burn and burn the young man would certainly do. He would burn and burn while at the same time trying to hold himself together for his wife and children. His trauma was coming to the surface, dear readers. It was coming. A little bit at a time. Just a little bit at a time, just enough to where the young man didn’t burn to a crisp.



But this is not the song he was singing that day as he sat at the fountain in downtown Oklahoma City. That song, dear reader, was merely the song that had been born as he had, once again, walked away from the safety and security that his job as a police officer provided him and his family. The steady paycheck. The health insurance (for there was another baby on the way when he had quit his job as a police officer. Emma Kate was due to arrive at any moment. His Emma Kate, the one they would call “Pure Healing”. The healing that was born into the man’s arms at the very moment that his own heart was breaking wide open and spilling over with anguish. This was the child in whom he was unable to sense any joy in her coming. Why? You may ask, dear reader, would a man hold his newborn with no joy in his heart? Yes. Please ask. It’s okay. The simplest answer, dear reader, is this: trauma. The young man still had made no peace with the clown who had smashed his head into the door so many times in his efforts to eat him as a child. The clown who said he loved him while abusing and abusing and abusing. Also, the young man had yet to make peace with the Clown that still lingered in his own being. The young man was whistling in the dark, hoping that the clown would not come to claim him. The young man who held that infant in his arms, dear reader, was much more desperate and afraid than he would be able to admit to himself for many years to come.)

 

This is the young man who sat at the fountain that day.

The young man, Luke, and the fleeing Imperial trooper—Yes, it was all three of them now--They sat together on the edge of a fountain, in front of the bus station, in downtown Oklahoma City, the place of the young man’s origin.



They sat there in desperation (more desperation than they even knew), praying for direction. The young man had no idea how desperate he really was. The young man had no idea that he was still re-living the trauma of his childhood. He did not know about the hero’s journey. He had been told that Jesus had made him whole, and he’d believed it. He’d been told that he was a new creation in Christ, and so he started living that way. He’d been told that he was born again, washed in the blood, and so he started walking in his new life as a new creation to the best of his abilities. 



As he sat there at the fountain, the young man prayed to his Jesus. He prayed to the only God he knew, the one and only God, the God of his salvation, the God who had brought him this far, his personal Jesus, the one who had delivered him from his own fluid sexuality. The one who had delivered his wife from her own fluid sexuality. The one God who had given their children their names. The Alpha. The Omega. 



The young man prayed to the Jesus who had rescued him before. He prayed to the ONE that he was beginning to understand could not be properly contained in any form that he’d been acquainted with thus far. He now prayed to the ONE that could not be contained by the Christianity that he’d come to know. The ONE who was certainly not finding its expression in the justice system in which he had just devoted himself to for the last several years if he included the two years that he had to WANT to be a police officer before he was able to be hired as one. He prayed to the God that he knew would walk him out of Egypt. He prayed to the God that he knew had helped him in the past. 



If there was an Obi-Wan in this young man’s life, it would have been Tim, the same man that he’d called that morning more recently as he lay there naked on the bathroom floor at the great Adobe house. 



If there was a Leia in his life, then he had possibly married her. And then they’d had three children. His wife. His sister in confusion of this transfusion? His sister, His wife, his fellow traveller who had also been distressed by her own fluidity. They had joined together in the name of the risen Christ with the intending to step on the neck of the great serpent, Satan. Together, they proclaimed their victory in Jesus, this young couple who came together desperately trying to give each other the family that they never had. They gave each other the children that they needed...the children that they wanted...The children that would show them the face of God...The children that would introduce them to sacrafice and suffering...the ones that would say “again, again, Daddy!” as the young man tossed them playfully on the bed.



This young couple came together and created a traditional family. And they had created it. But neither of these young people were traditional at all. They found the nursery in the bible belt insufficient….unsafe even...to raise their three children. 



Yes, dear reader, these are the general circumstances (many of the grueling details omitted) in which this young man found himself sitting at the fountain that day, by the bus station, in Oklahoma City, the city of his origin. 



The young man did not understand that he was bearing the burden of all the trauma that had been passed down through the generations. He did not understand the epigenetic unwinding of his own DNA in expression of that trauma. He could not fully fathom that gravity well which was now pulling on him. And truthfully, it was best that he did not understand on that day, because if he had, he would not have stood. If he were to face the dreadful shame that lived within him (that demon that the church could not cast out) he would have buckled that day. He would surely not have been able to stand up against that demon. 



But today, the writer who stood at the marble counter, facing North--He understood. And he had great compassion for the young man whom he now witnessed in his suffering. That young man, sitting there by himself at the fountain, in downtown Oklahoma City.



As the young man sat at the water fountain in prayer he was given a vision that would remain with him throughout his life. This is what the young man saw:



The young man saw a homeless man. A hungry man. There he was, right there, walking in front of the train station. Is he wearing a stained olive drab jacket from Wal-Mart? The middle-aged man does not remember exactly. But the beard looks very familiar to the one that the middle-aged man is wearing now. The hungry man stops in front of the but station. The homeless man stopped in front of a trash can, right there he is, in front of the bus station. He peered into the trash can. He pulled out a to-go box. He opened the to-go box. There’s a half-eaten sandwich inside the to-go box (the middle aged man assumes that it is a half eaten sandwich, although he really could not know for sure. It is usually sandwiches of the half-eaten variety that are found in to-go boxes, in trash cans in front of bus stations. This is not a place where whole sandwiches generally abide, outside of a miracle, of course).



The hungry and homeless man grasped the sandwich with one gloved hand (was it an elk skin glove?) The man brought the sandwich to his mouth. He ate the sandwich. 



“Luke.” said the Universal Obi Wan…

“Luke...reach out with your feelings…” Was obi wan already slain in this story? Yes maybe obi wan was slain as the young man had rejected the body-of-Christ...How can any of this be known?



The author will now complete the story as recorded in mythological history…

In this myth...In this legend which lives in the middle-aged man’s mind, it was at this moment that God said to him…Are you ready, dear reader? This is what God said to the young man concerning the homeless man who he had just seen eat the second-hand-sandwich from the to-go-box. This is what God said to the young man:



“Son, this is what freedom looks like.”



Leia, Luke’s sister was at home with their three children when the man returned from his prayerful outing. Yes, it was just then that the unemployed young man came home to his young family (this was the same young man who had become unwilling to be a police officer, the same one who had forsaken his church family and his family of origin by this time, the young man who was having such a difficult time in the “joining”). 



Yes, dear reader, it was this very young man (this dear one who had no fucking clue as to the deep trauma that was driving him) who came home to his wife, relaying the deep message of truth that he’d seen and heard in the vision of this homeless man who wore the stained olive jacket from Wal-Mart. 



This vision, so the young man believed was deeply tied to his youngest, Emma Kate (whose name meant “pure healing). The man knew that she needed something that this life could not give her. She needed…no. She deserved a life free from this unjust system. He had the dodge caravan. Yes, it was true, he had no trailer hitch, but that could be taken care of easily. He had the promise of an old, moldy, worn out pop-up trailer. 



And this was the plan that the young man presented to his wife that day. He hoped that his wife would say yes to his plan just as she had done several years ago when together, with joy in their hearts, they’d poured those sweet drinks out in that winter-wheat field as an offering to their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The young couple had said yes to the foolish wisdom of God on that day, and that decision had lead them to that very moment where they found themselves today. 



It was in this way that the young man and the young woman stood there as the Autumn was moving in on them. They found themselves standing together in the living room of a little red brick house. A little red brick house which stood directly under a blue water towwer. There they stood together, approaching this point of no return.

 

A man found a treasure

Hidden in a field

And in his joy

He buried the treasure

Then he went and he

He sold all that he had

And he bought that field



Leia did not say yes to the young man’s non-plan. There was hardly anything to say yes to. There was only desperation in Luke’s eyes now. And Luke accepted this. Luke knew that she was right. Luke had been defeated. 

And this is one powerful waypoint in their exodus story, one moment that the writer now identifies as having keenly shaped their future. This was the inevitable defeat of this young hereo. This young man who longed to be a Jedi, had somehow missed his calling. How did this happen? Maybe he didn’t listen to Obi Wan closely enough. 



It is with this despair and disillusion that the young man felt he had no choice but to give up his power, because he felt that, in these matters of leading a tribe, leading a people, leading a family into the promised land he really had no business. And so it went. The young man threw his light saber in the trash and he picked up his guitar.



Over the years, in most, if not all important decisions, the wife did her best to present the broken man with the appropriate options, those blessed options that she felt certain would not destroy her family. She always presented her husband with at least two or three appropriate options. 



“Remember,” his wife would sing to the young man as he walked out the door for work, “Remember, you are not a Jedi, sweetheart.” 



“You are right! You are so right! My dear one, I am certainly not a Jedi,” the husband would sing back to his beloved.



The young man had finally proven to himself and to the world that he was unable. This was the same young man who had come home with the vision of “freedom” from the fountain in front of the bus station in downtown Oklahoma City (foolishness now!). This was the young man who was definitely not a Jedi, nor had he ever been. “Jedi’s are just in stories. They’re not real,” the man told himself.



The writer came back to himself now. He stood at the island, looking at himself in the mirror. He did look a lot like the homeless guy at the bus station. “In fact, I am that homeless guy at the bus station. I’ve got the jacket to prove it. All I’ve got to do is wear it around a little longer. It’ll find those stains for itself.”



“A wildly talented writer?” the middle-aged-man questioned himself. “Is this really a good time to bring that up? Are you still carrying that around with you? Just as you’re sharing about the Jedi thing? Really?



Is this the story of a writer who wanted to be a Jedi? A young artist who wanted to raise a family? A writer who had committed himself, so early in his career to the death of his own authorship? That sounds like a non-plan, kind of like coming home and telling your wife, “Hey, I’ve had a vision...a vision of freedom! Let me tell you what I’ve seen…”



“A writer who seeks the death of the author?” the middle-aged-man scoffed. “Seems an unlikely story to me.”



The Generative-Nurturing adult walked away from the marble-top counter to get some pillows for the middle-aged man to sit on. “Please, take a rest, my friend. That was a lot to with-ness. That was a lot to take in.”

The dying author listened to this generative adult. He took a seat on the pillows there in front of the sink. 



“Making peace with the incest. Making peace with the inevitable loss of power. Making peace with the death of the wildly-talented writer,” said the middle-aged-man.“Is this what it’s like to be a writer? Hmmm…” he reflected. “It just seems a lot like my life,” and then he laughed at himself. Oh, Thank the Gods! He laughed at himself. The miracle that all trauma tries it damndest to steal away. The gift of not taking yourself so goddamned seriously! Praise the Gods of Rock and Roll and all the funny outfits that they wore!



“Is this really all rigged in my favor?” asked the young married man who continued on with his life as best as he could.



“Am I really living in a Universe that is out to help me?” asked the middle-aged man who continued on with his life as best as he could.



“Yes, this really is all rigged in your favor.” said the generative-nurturing-adult.



The dying author picked up his chromebook and moved to the living room to sit on the couch and search for a quote he’d found in a book recently. The book was called Dismantled, by Bruce Sanguin: How Love and Psychedelics broke a clergyman and put him back together again.



The dying author found the poem he was looking for. “Yes, Here it is,” he said.



“Who told you I need a house?

Asks the nomad G_d?

Of those who grew weary of the eternal

Restlessness

Thinking s/He might appreciate

A fixed address

Like a queen or priest

 

Your temples conceal

Streams of grace

Where once desert pilgrims

Found respite, quenched thirst, offered

Thanks

And then felt the mistrals moving them on”

 

It was then, that the writer remembered a verse of his own:

 

She said, “you cannot walk on water.”

With a tongue sharp to kill

But in the eye of the hurricane

You are always still

Dying author

 

And then, in the writer’s heart, Bruce’s poem continued:



“Befriend fear

That unsolicited angel

Appearing at the tent

Of your life

Come to announce

That the wild one

Is breaking camp and moving on

Time to pull up stakes.”

Again.

Nobody (Not the Nazarene for sure)

Said it would be easy

Here’s my one concession

To your fear:

 

Lean back

I will carry you for a time

In the momentum of my yearning

The future asks --only--

For your trust

Bruce 



“Thank you Obi-Wan,” said the middle-aged-man.





The dying author...The generative nurturing adult...the middle-aged man...woke up with that single tab of LSD not far from his mind. This was the same tab that he’d made in exchange with his son in law for the mushrooms.



He also remembered though that his oldest daughter would be coming over at some time today, searching for pictures...family pictures.



They had a text conversation the day before which was recorded like this:

 

Oldest daughter (Anna Rene: the one who is graciously reborn): “Hey there. Just wanted to make sure the 27th is a good day to leave?” 



Dying author: Hellzya! :-)



Oldest daughter: Cool! Also do you have any pictures of you and us kids?



Middle aged-man: Yeah I’m sure I do. You can come over and go through them. I’d love to have some company



Oldest Daughter: Okay! Could I do that tomorrow? I’m pretty occupied tonight.



Wildy talented writer: I don’t see why not



Graciously Reborn: Okee dokee

 

The middle-aged man had a trip planned. He and his children were scheduled to visit his mother in Oklahoma City. His Christmas present.



The twenty-seventh of December. That was one of those dates that was etched in the man’s memory from exactly one year ago. 



The dying author (the one who was trying to find his own death so that his reader may live) sat in the living room of the southwestern-style adobe house. “What are those orangey-pink Mexican tiles called? They have a cool name,” the writer questioned of himself.



It was those large, pinkish-orange mexican style tiles which were currently providing the context for the living room in which the dying author sat, fingers curved patiently over home-row. 



Georgia O’keefe prints hung above, flanking the large fireplace on either side; a cattle skull and a morning glory, a wide river bordered by a scrub brush hill, a blue mountain on the desert horizon. You know, Georgia? Do you not dear reader? Please picture her now.



PA speakers were stacked in the corners of the great living room. There was the man’s upright bass. Dan’s silver-sparkle Tama drumset. A black baby grand piano. Deep burgundy toned Congas. An assortment of other instruments and equipment dotted the room. 



And on the other end of the spectrum from the tile, bordering the elevated regions, a twenty foot ceiling with eleven girthy rafters which the dying author had just now counted for the sake of description. It was truly a glorious space to sit in, a place that reminded the middle-aged-man of the richness of his life and how well he truly was supported in the fabric of all being.



The living rooma also served a profoundly rewarding acoustic environment in which to play guitar and sing. A very pleasing natural reverberation was one of the deepest blessings from the very heart of the room, from the very heart of the Universal architect who’d designed it. 



In one recessed display nook, embraced by softened edges, a native American wearing a ceremonial eagle-feather costume reached toward the heavens in a sacred dance. This had become one of the dying authors symbols that he looked to recently.





Engines losing power

Looking for a place to set down

Man of the hour

Tomorrow he wears that thorny crown



These were the lyrics from a song that the dying-author had recently written. These lyrics were part of the fabric that had sustained the middle-aged man. He’d envisioned himself the pilot of an airplane. Hie engines were losing power. He was calmly declaring an emergency now, looking for a safe landing zone for the controlled crash that appeared as eminent.





On the twenty-seventh of December of last year, the middle aged man, instead of going to work, took himself to the emergency room. It was there that he had received his second pair of blue-paper-pajamas and had his first (and hopefully last!) cavity search. Ahhh…the cavity search had finally found its way back to him. Praise be to the finger that probes and the one who coughs!



It was then, directly following his very own cavity search (which was not nearly as violent for him as it most likely was for the young lady that he’d arrested), that he had paused in the hallway and said that most important prayer. 



“God, help me.” 



There had not even been a “please.” Just a “God, help me.” 



But the “please” was written in the fabric, the writer now believes. The Universal “please” was there, in the spirit of the prayer, for it had been a prayer of desperation. 



It was after the cavity searc and the prayer of desperation that a prayer came right back to the man. The prayer came from a big man named Clinton, a large gay black man who also found himself at the Universal Sunrise in Roswell New Mexico. “The Lord is restoring you,” Clinton said as he laid his hands on the middle-aged man who was wearing his new blue-paper-pajamas. 



It was there, at the Universal Sunrise, that he’d performed his first miracle after saying the sacred prayer of desperation. The man found himself praying for a fellow traveller, a woman who was curled in a chair despondently for two days. It was there that he had opened up on a deeper level. 



It was also there, at the Uviversal Sunrise, that he’d learned he’d been healed of his kidney disease. The stage 3B kidney disease that his nephrologis said was non-reversible, had apparently reversed, a miracle that the man would, in the near future, gratefully accept for exactly what it was, no more, no less. 



The middle-aged-man was glad to report in this moment, “It’s nice to get some unexpected good news like that when you’re in a psychiatric unit.”



It was from the Universal Sunrise that his friend, Chek finally came to pick him up on new years eve day.



God bless the fellow suffering human being whose name is Chek until he is ready to receive his name anew! All Praise to Chek for driving to Rowell that day to greet that middle-aged-man as he walked out those double doors and into a coming freedom!



Chek and the middle aged man ate at a Burger King before making the hour-and-a-half truck ride home from Roswell (The truck Universal Truck Driver who in a moment of courage and kindess pick us up from Sunrise, or on the side of the road, or from wherever it is we need a ride). 



Praise be to the ONE who crafted the truck who drove the middle-aged man home from the Sunrise Mental Health Facility that unseasonably warm winter day. Praise be to the great Mother of Chek for bringing he-who-would-spring-the-middle-aged-man out of the psych on that day. The new year was coming! It was coming that very night! 2019! Praise be to God in the highest. As it was in the beginning, it now and ever shall be. World without end, amen. Amen.





The middle aged man hoped that he’d been scared straight by the psych-unit. Less than an hour after checking in, he was looking for a way out, after all, he had voluntarily come, should he not be able to voluntarily leave?”



“Oh no, Honey,” said the friendly old nurse from behind the half-door, as she offered the man the psychiatric medication that he still refused to take, “That’s not at all how it works,” She informed him in the sweetest of Texas drawl. “You can ask to go. You can make that request. But Honey, let me tell you, that if you do, you’re gonna be here longer. They’ll hold you longer if you ask, Honey. Oh no, honey. I wouldn’t do that if I were you.”



The middle aged man wanted to be held, but this type of holding was, somehow, despite the genuine friendliness of his sister, the nurse, not the kind of holding that he desired. So he used his breathing techniques, and he trusted. The best he could, he trusted. He waited. He sat. He went to all the group sessions. He did, however, continue to decline the medications. He’d already been off the medications for months and months, he did not know exactly how long it had been since he’d abandoned the hope that the pharmaceutical industry had anything to do with his salvation, but the lesson had been hard-won, and he had circled back on that one several times now, so he respectfully declined the medications when they were offered three times a day. “No thank you, ma’am. Yes. That’s right, ma’am. I decline the psychiatric medication.”



But he was no longer in there! All praise to Chek and his big manly truck! The middle-aged man was out of there. It was the last day of December and, Michelle, the woman he’d recently been intimately connected with was waiting for him to get back in town. Thank the gods! He had someone to be with on new years eve! 



However, it wasn’t but a few hours after he was back home that the illness, the man’s rising trauma, returned. He found himself weeping, on the phone with his mother, trying to explain his sense of desperation: 



“I’m not ready. I can’t do this. I can’t go back to work. I feel sick. I feel very sick. I’m not well, mom. I need help. I need to go somewhere. I need some more help, mom. I’ve got to go somewhere. I’ve got to get some help,” the man, once again poured out to his dear mother who was doing her best to stand in for the Universal Mother that the man needed so deeply so desperately needed. 



He did not understand that he was looking for a mother to absorb his trauma. He was in need of the Great Mother Earth. She was waiting to absorb his trauma. But, he did not yet know this. His trauma would inevitably return to the earth. But, would it happen as he still lived here? 



She was trying to accept this burden from the middle-aged-man, and he was trying to say yes. His heart was opening, little by little, just as much as any one human could stand. And there were so many others that were trying to help this man to open that door. They were doing their part. He was doing his. The Great Mother was calling her Son, home. The Great Mother was arising from within the Son.



The middle-aged man sat in his little blue toyota. He’d parked in the baseball field parking lot near the friendly, green water tower in the college-cow-town. It was from the parking lot by the ballfield that the man called his mother. He needed to tell someone that he needed help.

He was struggling with his insurance company. 



“I need to find the right place to go. I’m not just going to go anywhere,” the son told his mother.



But, when it all finally washed out, as far as available treatment centers went, he had exactly one option, and so that is the one that he chose. 



In the eight days following his release from Sunrise, he had come very close to buying a one way ticket to Hawaii, where if he was to become “free” (like the homeless man in his vision) he would not have to be cold. But he was advised against that path by several friends that he trusted. 



“You can always be homeless in Hawaii after you go to the treatment center,” Dan said. “You could try the treatment center. If you try the treatment center you get to keep your job for now, and Hawaii will be there for you if that’s where you need to go.”



Two years before, The middle-aged man had accompanied his family on what would be their last family vacation. They flew to Hawaii. And, they financed it. They bought that trip to Hawaii with money that they didn’t have. His wife kept calling it their last family vacation, the middle-aged man found himself objecting, “You don’t know that this is our last family vaction, do you?” But, she was right. It was their last family vacation. And it was a good one. The middle-aged man had commented to the family several times during their stay on the big island, “This must be a pretty good place to be homeless. You’d never get cold. And it doesn’t seem like the authorities hassle them too much either.”



And so it came to pass that He and his friend Dan stood together (nearly one year ago from the wildly-talented writers’ humble perspective) on opposite sides of the marble island, with a purple sharpie marker, composing a bubble list, a bubble list they’d created as a tool to explore their options. 



“You have options,” Said Dan. “You have options.” Dan joined right along in his own game and made himself his own bubble list too, with the help of the friendly purple sharpie.



And that is the story of how the middle-aged man found himself at his next treatment center in Rio Rancho, New mexico (for he had already been to one other treatment center which this non-linear story has yet to mention). The treatment center that the man now found himself as was a 12-step program, which caused the middle-aged-man great fear and loathing. Yes, dear reader, there was great resentment in the middle-aged man’s heart because: 



“I’ve already tried the twelve steps. They didn’t work for me, although I’m truly happy that they are working for you.” and in his moments of deeper frustration he sounded more like, “Fucking twelve-step bullshit! Look at you mother fuckers, you think you are living a life of freedom, coming to these rooms and talking about how selfish you are and chastising yourself for not ‘working a better program’. You call this freedom?! Fuck this shit!” His relationship with the twelve step program and its members, like every system and every person who had tried to hold him, was tired and complicated. 



However, despite the middle-aged man’s reservations about being there, he somehow managed to get himself (or possibly he was carried by grace) to Viewpoint, a small home-like environment where he just happened to encounter some of the deepest compassion compassionate help that he’d ever encountered anywhere in his entire life. 



It was at viewpoint that the middle-aged-man met Eckhardt Tolle, through his book, The Power of Now. Eckhardts book, just another piece in the puzzle that the man was trying to put together (the middle aged man hated puzzles. Really. He just never had any real use for puzzles). Nonetheless,Tolle’s teachings acted as a bridge to bring the twelve step work (the peace he’d been willing to make with God), with the Vipassana mediation practice that had been introduced to him through Pema Chodron and his first therapist, Penny. 



Praise be to the ONE for Bill and Bob, and the small German man named Eckhardt, and praise be to the great Mother Pema, and Praise to the one who is called Penny, who held the man in her unconditional positive regard when the tears first flowed. Praise be to the ONE called Penny, who educated the man about the fluidity of human sexuality. The ONE who introduced the Spectrum and the Spiral and showed the man into the great tunnel of shit that Andy Dufresne crawled through before him. Praise be to Andy Dufresne! Praise be to the one called Red, who smuggle in the rock hammer! Praise be to God.



And so it was that the man found himself on a path that was girded by the twelve steps. And so it was that the heart of God was revealed to him there at the Universal Viewpoint. The heart of God was revealed to the man to be his very own deepest Heart. The man had a genuine second-step experience. He came to accept that there was a power greater than his own ego, and that power was out to help him



And so it was that he memorized the third step prayer as an act of willingness. He memorized it in the King James language just because that was exacty the kind of thing that scared him. “Go to the places that scare you,” Said his Pema.

“Yes, my Pema. I hear you and I acknowledge your wisom, dear one.”



God, 

I offer myself to you

To buildeth with me 

And to doeth with me as you will

(please) relieve me of the bondage

Of self

That I may better 

Do your will

Take away

My difficulties

That victory over them may bear witness

To those I may help

Of your power

Your love

And your way of

LIFE

May I do your will

Today

May I do your will

Always….



And so it continued. Once again, the impossible had been done. The miracle had come to pass. The middle-aged man agreed to be held, once again. The middle-aged man gave himself, with abandon, to the very 12-step program that his sponsor Dan had passed down to him.



“Keep coming back. It works if you work it”.

“One day at a time.”

“Let Go. Let God.”

“Take what you can use. Leave the rest.”

“Share your Experience, Strength, and hope.”

“Easy does it.”



And so the middle aged man worked it. He estimated that he’d attended over three hundred AA meeting in the first one hundred and eighty days after he finally left the treatment center. After working the steps through again, the middle-aged-man had a true eleventh step experience. The heavens parted for him, once again. He saw the ALL. He was the ONE. He became Compassion. He became Patience. 



Like the grinch who had stolen Christmas and then brought it back to all the Whos in Whoesville, his heart had expanded several sizes! It was working! He was breathing, again. He was re-learning how to breathe every day. He was accepting of everything that was. He was re-learning how to live every day. 



He returned to work. He eased in slow. “Easy does it,” they say in the program. He shared the joy of his new salvation with anyone who would listen. He was glowing. He was smiling. He was open. He was honest. He was willing. Praise be to the big book! Praise be to all holy scriptures ever born of this earth! Praise be to every method by which salvation has come to all of human kind! Praise Mohammed and the surrender of Jihad. Praise the Kali Ma, the one who lops off the ego-head of man! Praise the mother cougar who nourishes her cubs with her own body fluids! Praise be the tadpoles’ transformation! Praise Lucy the Australopithecus who is the mother of all humanity! Praise to the Dragon! Praise to our Mammoth brother! Praise to the snake clan of the underworld! Praise be to the Shaman! Praise be to Jimmy and Jo of AA! Praise be to Linda and Dan and the Chief, Jeremy! Praise be to all those who walk through the doors! Praise be to all who leave! Praise be to the forms that hold us! And praise be to the inevitable failure of all form! For this is what brings the evolution! This is what brings us back full cirlce. This is how we circle back. Praise be to the snake, to the DNA, the Spiral dynamics by which we circle back on ourselves, the path of infinite deepening. The path of infinite elevation. The trans-rational path, as our friend Ken Wilbur would say, “All truth is true as far as it goes. Some truth just doesn’t go as deep as our being requires.” And that is how and why we migrate. This is why the early humans left Africa. This is why Lucy’s ancestors came down from the trees. This is why Emma and Darwin said, “yes” to transmutation. This is why we are here: To descend. To ascend. And to transcend the ups and the downs and the lefts and the rights. To invent the quantum computer which is no longer bound by the binary. To allow that which is created to create the new life that will emerge with the quantum computation and to allow it to breathe and to be and to begin to see itself. The life will come from without, it will descend from the heavens and introduce itself to us. And the life will come from within, from the energetic realm of the quanta, that which cannot be quantified. The life will emanate from reason and the life will arise from the poem. The life will find us. We are the life that has discovered itself. Praise be to all sacred form in all it’s inadequacy! Praise be to the process from which consciousness arose and praise be to those who walk away from deficient form only to find themselves, once again, immersed in the Great Evolution of Consciousness, that which cannot be walked away from, that which we have called God.



God, 

Grant me the serenity

To accept the things

I cannot change

To change

The things

I can

And the 

Wisdom

To know

The difference

World without end. Amen. amen.

The dying author. The one who gives his life for the world so that she may live, sat in the living room with those tiles. He could still not remember what they were called. It would come. It will come to him eventually, dear reader. 



The eleven wood rafters. The twenty foot ceiling. The Georgia O’keefe prints. The instruments. The writer sat with a thick throw pillow in his lap. The chromebook rested on top of the throw pillow. The writer was rediscovering the miracle in himself. 



The wildy-talented-writer was allowed to exist. The author was allowed to die. And this was the story of that great dying. He accepted the gift of warmth in the elegant adobe home in which he was now found himself sheltered against the coldness of the winter. The kindess of a man named, Dan kept him out of the cold that night. He was not eating a sandwich from a to-go-box. That was not the mans’ freedom tonight. Tonight the man’s freedom looked like this, and for that he was simply grateful. 



The Christ in him had found shelter. Or was it the crucified one? The Christ, who knows not where he will lay his head, incarnated in the man. The middle-aged-man allowed this miracle to happen. He surrendered. And with that surrender he prayed for deeper surrender. “Burn me up.” He sang to the most high just the night before. “Burn me up.” And he woke up wondering about that tab of LSD that was in the tool box in his closet (well, it wasn’t his closet. It was the closet of his good friend and AA sponsor Dan G).



It was 7:50 AM on the fourth day of the great-writing.



He left (his) the chromebook laying open on the leather couch

He fed the outside cats, those divine creatures of the cold, under constant threat of the dogs-of war. 



He fed the feral cats. 

And he fed the Mona Lisa, that Siames who looked so elegant and obviously still held memories of being an inside cat, for in her dreams, she herself often tip-toed across the threshold and into the great kitchen.



The Chromebook was on the couch, 

It was wide open



The fork in the road presented itself to the writer…there it was

The binary



Down one road there was a story about a man with two new hips and the gift that he’d given to the man.



Down the other road the dying author would speak of the uncertainty embedded in the Universal Journey. 



As the writer waited at the fork, he compared the writing of these words (dare he call these words a book yet?) to the dying of the Moth. The budding writer did not know how long this would go on. How long would he bear witness to the death of the author? “How long,” he wondered, “can I hold this form?”



“Just long enough to die a proper death, I suppose,” he answered himself



He backed up...

The gong was given as a gift…

He backs up again...and waits….

How real is this expereince? He wonders if he can live with the red line of correction that is given hi as he misspells the word experience, once again. The mesage light on (his) the phone blinks. What does the dying author truly own? Does anything belong to him? He backs up...again



His fingers curled over home row again



That wasn’t real...much earlier in this writing...when the cat walked over the keyboard...those letters were not actually typed by the cat. I think you knew that. It just came to mind. It’s this relationship that I’m (who’s this I?) developing with you (who’s this you?). Author...the one who dies...audience...the ones who live. In order for you to live i must die. This is what happens when I back up. When I do the work of non-writing...let (me) reapproach that...when the work of non-writing is done through (me)...Is there a way to make that statement in which the (me) does not show up. Is the (me) ever completely pushed out? What is this like? Is this why Jesus never wrote a book? The impossibility of all of this. That’s the thing about miracles though...it is the doing...or the non-doing of the impossible. Allowing the impossible to be done through. “Channeling”, as they say. The great allowing. How does Barbara say this, Eileen? How do you say this, Eileen? Dave. How do you say this. Or rather, how do (you) allow this? Is there a step program? The Artist’s way?

 

All the Stubble We Rubble

Dan texts:



Dan: Travis! (the one who stands at the crossroads)



Travis: Danno!

Oh Danny biy

The pies the pie are calling! Lol

Allow the miracles to be worked through you

Lower the resistance



Dan: I just made up a song and sang Acapella to a little girl in a wheelchair. She is terminal



Travis (the name is precious now): Yes! There you are! 

The miracle man allows it to happen

The miracle man allows it to flow!



Dan: While she might not have enjoyed my singing, she did enjoy the stubble on my unshaven face

I was touched by God through her fingers



Travis: There are no hard miracles or easy miracles. They are all of equal ease. There are no large miracles or small miracles...they are all of equal value...and they all arise from the heart of love. 

Praise be to God...Praise be to The One



Dan: Praise be to the one…

I messaged Chek



Travis: Another miracle

I just texted him too upon your reminding

Copied from message to Chek, our fellow sufferer:

Chek! Where are you! Your people need you, my friend. Come work your miracles among us! We need to be touched by your grace, chek.

To Dan: He is the risen Christ, Dan. We must pray that he comes to heal our broken hearts



Dan: awesome message!

We need his healing



Travis: Please God. Rise up within Chek and do your will. Please heal all of us as you rise up within him.

Do the impossible, God

Please let us see one of us raised from the dead again



Dan: Yes, do the impossible



Travis: As it has been witnessed in (me) allow us to witness the miracle again within another fellow being

As it has been witnessed in Dan, allow it to be again

We ask for a release of spirit in our lives and the lives of all whom we touch...all the faces we touch...all the stubble we rubble



Dan: Amen! Amen!

“All the stubble we rubble”

 

8:40 AM Day 4

Eli, our Universal Cat, sits on the mexican tile. He stares. His ears move, rotating slightly. “I wonder if he ate my acid.” Thought the dying author. “The way he is staring at the couch there must be something else going on there.” He suspected that the world may be just as obviously breathing to the animals all the time as it was to him after he’d taken the medicine. The medicine that heals the Wetiko spirit within us. If we can see that everything is alive and breathing, animated by the love of the Creator, then it is less likely that we would treat a mountain like it was a non-living thing. “Or a cat,” thought the man who had once severely mistreated his animals.



“Father?”

“Yes, Son.”

“Can I climb that mountain?”

“You can try, Son. Just one step at a time. Make sure of your footing. Here we go.”



Text To Anna (oldest daughter..graciously reborn): When do you think you might be over, sweetie bear (tongue-sticking-out smiley emoticon)?



This is what it’s like. This is what it’s like to be alive.



Anna Gonzales: When is a good time:



Dad: Now is a good time. Five minutes from now? Twenty minutes from now? One hour from now?

When is a good time for you?

I see all times as good

I make no judgment against one time or another

When I see time I am colour blind (apparently the man’s app is on a UK setting)

All times are equal to me



Anna: lol okay I could come in about an hour :-)



The dying author may have been giving himself an opportunity to eat that acid...medicine? Is that what it is? Hopefully so…

 

 And then…



The man’s oldest daughter came over in search of family pictures. 

The man blessed his daughter with his whole heart

The father’s blessing was channeled that day through him

It is he who stands at the crossroads.

The daughter played piano for the father

The one who stood at the crossroads

The father breathed into the depths of presence as 

The music flowed from his daughter’s hands

Praise be to the one who is graciously reborn!

Praise be to the Universal Daughter!

 

 

Day 4...12:19 pm

 

The single tab of medicine...LSD...acid...sat on the marbled island. In a baggie. The man had not eaten today with this intent. This was a moment for honesty with Self. This was a moment to breathe in. He sat for several minutes on the three pillows that were stacked for him in the kitchen by the sink. He was at a crossroads. This is what his name meant. He who stands at the crossroads. He who stands at the crossroads and waits for the road to appear that is not a road. The middle-aged-man asked for wisdom to speak to him on this matter. He received no warnings from his inner wisdom. Was he opening? Was he listening? He sat again. 

“Check your expectations,” he advised himself

“Open,” he suggested

“Breathe in this whole experience.”

 

He opened the baggie, reached in, retrieved the single tab, and set it down on the outside of the baggie. He typed.



He circled the house. Why was he doing this? Was it for healing? 



The writer prayed, “God, please let this be a prayer of healing. Let this day be a day of healing. I accept the healing in whatever form it takes. Let the healing come however healing must come. From within. From without. Let it come in ways that I’d never expect it.” 



“Yes, Son, never the same way twice,” said the great Spirit.



“I breathe three breaths in the name of acceptance.”



He said the third step prayer.

He said the serenity prayer.

He sent the draft to Dave and Eileen

He placed the tab in his mouth.

Under the tongue for twenty minutes, that’s what son-in law said. It was 12:38 pm on Day 4 of the Great-Writing.

 

There are many different ways to find ones self on ones knees

Sickness

Curiosity 

A single ant



A December fly

Crosses the threshold

Of home



A feral cat

Nearly does too



What happens

When a door

Is left

Open?



Just one moth

That’s all it takes

Just one moth

To disturb the peace

Just one moth

To buzz in one ear



Just one door

Just one door left

Open



One fly 

Crosses the threshold

What about the fly?

She’s been trying to warm her wings by my stove

For years

And what do I do?



Let the answer come easy, my Son

Let the answer come easy nad honest

Be gentle with yourself

Because today

We commune with

Hafiz!



Or is it another 

Today?



Who is our company?

This one?

He who interfaces with 

Touch screen

And keyboard



Can we commune with this one today?

The ONE who stands

At the crossroads?



Eli comes and goes as he pleases

For the moment



When will the nururing adult

Close the door?



You know this one, son

The One who lives so strong in you

She who takes care of your glasses

When you are playing rough



The one

Who counted to five 

All those years

Counting to five

Counting to three

1

2

3

Then there was you 

And me

Am I seeing patterns

Where there are

None



And so the writing passed into pure experience as the writer let go of the form to encounter a deeper wisdom in himself. And later, at 5:15PM the writer checks in with us again, dear reader.

 

Day 4...5:15PM



There is still much tenderness surrounding all of this.

Yet, i write, because today

This is what I do

Just for today

This is what i do

Yes.

Here i am

The poet

Maybe I’m not

As “that”

As I think I am

Maybe I’m not

As much like “this” 

As I thought I was

Maybe it’s BOTH

Maybe it’s AND

BOTH/AND

 

 

Maybe I’m seeing 

Patterns

Where

There

Are

None

(sounds like a miracle to me)

“Maybe you are creating your own patterns by way of miracle,” said the writer to his inner poet.

 





Reality may fall away

This, the great Fluttering

Of birds

There they were

A community.

They Just passed through here

On a thousand wings



 

What do I demand

That cannot be given?

 

What kind of gentleness

Can be found

In the windchime

Today?

 

How do we reconcile

with that

Which is always changing?

Is that why (I) was 

Threatening to the mother of our children?

Who was threatening?

Who is this I?

 

He blessed his daughter

The irevocable blessing

The ONE blessing that cannot be

Withdrawn

Because

The one who gives

Has no power

Of revocation

The blessing, merely a recognition 

Acknowledging The One Life

That already is

The miracle already in progress

Being with-nessed (Bayo)

 

How does one

Make peace with a universe

That is out

To help you?

 

How does one receive

All these blessings

Without becoming… (the poem could have ended here, it seems now)

Too accustomed

Accustomed

Accustomed

 

 

There’s something different

In the way

These wild cats move

An agility

An alertness

Of which

I am not exactly familiar

That which I do not wish to look away from

For too long

Whenever it is 

Present

 

 

Was that revulsion

I just saw in those 

Wild ones?

As they looked

Down

On their domesticated

Brother?

 

Or was that me?

Projecting my own revulsion

That revulstion that is

within my own being?

 

 

And then I discover

That what I may have interpreted

For revulsion

Is simply

Wariness

Because

Just then

Eli shows his dominance

And then

I watch

As Eli rubs himself

On the surroundings 

He rubs himself

On all the objects

Presumably leaving his scent

Reclaiming territory?

His is a strong cat

Even among the wild ones

And he walks freely

Now from one domain

And into

The other

door ajar

house open



And was that respect

For the old cat?

That just welled up in me

Or reverence?



or….

Is that the female in me

That wants to lie with the

Biggest cat?

What for?

For my own protection?

Is that Her in me?

That wants to lay down

With the big cat?

The dominant cat



“I’m sleeping with that one,”

She says.

He’s mine

and

He owns me

I’m owned by him?



Where did I pick this up?

Am I imitating someone?

Is that me?

The woman who sleeps

With Eli?

Am I that fluid now?

Just how fluid is that?

And how comfortable...Really

Are you with that?

Take all the time that you need…

 

 

 

Mona Lisa

The dainty siamese

That sleeps out in the cold

The one who does not pretend

She does not pretend that she does not

Walk on the counter tops

Mona Lisa

now 

Crosses the threshold

 

What is your threshold?

Do you know?

 

Can I make peace with 

The fragility of all this?

The contracture in my left hand?

Is my past ugly?

Or is it beautiful?

Not either or

BOTH/AND

 

The BOTH/AND

Has penetrated

My conscious being now

Has it not?

 

A language manifestation?

A phenomena?

An observance

 

BOTH/AND

That’s what Sam was teaching me

 

 

When I try to know “things” (beings)

That I do not know

By way of my current ways of knowing

I end up having some kind

Of superficial experience

With an authentic being.

Is that okay too?

Is that how this starts?

curiosity?

 

 

The tender one

The one who releases

The one who wishes 

The one who wants

How do i say this?

Simply…

This woman?

Tree g\Goddess

Empress of forest?

One who stands with trees

One who orgasms

Without erection

Quivering one

Holding form

One who is penetrated

the ONE who longs to be desired

Can I own this for myself without appropriating?

Can I make peace with myself here? Can I make peace?

Yes

The answer is a resounding “YES”



In fact, that’s what I just witnessed. I witnessed the peace being made in real time. I was there. I participated. I sensed my own woman-ness as men were working heavy machinery just on the other side of those trees. And I made no quarrel with these men in my heart. I acknowledged their labor, seeing myself in them. I acknowledged them as they put in the work to build their own sanctuary. I acknowledged the hands that had labored to build the sanctuary in which I walked. Those hands were my hands, and I was the tree g/Godess. BOTH AND

I pause again…. to acknowledge the tenderness of this moment…

It may be that I still need to rest in this moment

It may be that i need to give this a little more room to breathe

Eli is calling at the back door

At the threshold

I was brought to my threshold

James Taylor...The man who wrote himself a lullaby...what an intimate act of self nurturing…

And then, he shared it with the world...and his lullaby became mine...And it taught me how to write a lullaby...And he taught me how to hold myself like that….

Mr Rogers...The man who showed me that its okay to be a man…in public

I am fiercely committed to life...as it presents itself today

I am fiercely committed to saying “yes” to life today

I just painted a blue snake...with watercolors…

It is the same snake that I saw in a vision

There is a friendliness to it...a genuine friendliness to the snake…

I was not able to look at the snake for too long when I had the vision.

But now I can look at the snake for as long as I want because I just painted it with my watercolors.

It starts at the bottom and goes all the way to the top where there’s a head...a friendly little head that flips up...and now I can see that the same blue snake that I saw in the vision is smiling at me too...He always was, I can just trust him now. You can’t always trust a smile. But I feel like I can trust him now.

I’m going to look at him now

He’s got this funny little nose that flips up….just like in the vision



The man could see himself and his committment to this project. He could also see himself splitting. He was a little girl who was shy to tell her daddy that she liked boys. He was a proud little boy who just painted a blue snake that he liked to look at. He was an exceptionally disciplined man who had just stood as a tree-goddess outside, while other exceptionally strong men worked on a building project just through the trees. He imagined that they may have caught glimpses of him through the evergreens, as he walked majestically, slowly, and took root as a woman of the soil, as he allowed his branches to reach up toward the life-giving sunlight. He imagined they could see him but he was okay with that. More than okay with that, actually. Those exceptionally strong men were part of his ceremony. He allowed them to be exactly where they were, doing exactly what they were doing while he gave himself the space to be exactly where he was, doing exactly what he was doing. And he felt elated and exhilarated in the experience. In fact he came to orgasm without an erection. It was not a genital orgasm….He had never expereinced anything quite like this before...he quivered as he engaged in the form of the goddess...in the form of a tree...His body quivered to hold this erotic form which did not stimulate his genetalia...but at the same time he acknowledged his friend Brooks who was often very boisterous about the genitalia aspect of the process...he allowed himsef to pulse with that, inside that for a moment, he felt the coarseness, he felt the need to come...but still there was no stimulation of his genetalia...why is the daddy using that word...is it to maintain some kind of distance from his subject? It’s okay dear...this is just how daddy is...it’s a perfectly legitimate expression of human form...if he wants to use the word genetalia, well then we’ll just let him go right ahead and do that. He knows that he doesn’t have to take himself too seriously.

 

Back to the blue snake...with the flipped up nose….

It starts at the bottom and goes all the way to the top

He’s all alone on the page, up there in the upper left corner...Does this have to do with Ken Wilber and his 4 quadrants? I don’t know...let’s see…

Right now it’s just the snake with the flipped up nose

He starts at the bottom and goes all the way up to the top again 

And again

And again

There’s a snake in the upper left quadrant, Ken. What does that mean?

The man was acknowledging the tenderness of the moment

The man was also working

He liked to work

He liked this occupation of “writer” that he had now found himself so gainfully employed at

He was very curious about this job...the mechanics of it...the ins and outs...He did not know how long this form would be held. But today he was a writer...he was knowing what it was like to be a writer in a beautiful home with marble-top counters and a backyard where he was safe to become a tree goddess, sensually parading with her sisters as the men worked next door. It seemed that every part of him was comfortable with this. It seemed that he had made peace with this. It felt whole. It felt authentic to the man. It felt honest as he had already found himself talking to Stan about it in a phone conversation just a half-an-hour ago. After he got off the phone with Stan he sat on the pillows that were situated for him below the sink. The generative nurturing adult asked him to sit for a moment so he could do a check in. And he did check in. and that’s when he realized that he was a very very strong and disciplined man who was holding form in this project. Then he knelt, with his forehead on the cold tile, it felt so comforting...there are so many different ways to come to ones’ knees. This one was in a very kind and affectionate way. The man was now situated at the kitchen table. His laptop was partially covering the watercolor paper. The snake was in the upper left quadrant, Ken had yet to weigh in about whether or not that was pertinent, nor was the man quite certain how Ken Wilbur had been invoked, or summoned, or whatever that was that had happened. 

Just a blue snake on the white paper with his nose flipped up

Just like the one in the vision

He goes all the way from the bottom to the top

He’s friendly

He has a friendly way about his body

A gentle way of curving

I bet he’s good at circling back, Eileen.

I bet he’s real good at circling back



The very very strong and disciplined man

The man who had given his life to one form or another

The man who had given his very best

The man who’d given his utmost for the highest

The gentle man

The snake man

The strong bear

Part of the man was now back at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. The cabin that the Owl woman and the Universal Stan had so graciously offered him. 



After the man had turned off the lights of the trinity, after he’d encountered the resurrected moth. He lay there. Unable to sleep, he got up to the count of 5 4 3 2 1. He put on his layered clothes and he went out into the bright moonlight.



The writer received a text from his mother. Not the man at the cabin, the man at the kitchen table who was typing. His mother was well, thank you very much for asking.



A mosquito fluttered around the screen of his chromebook. “A mosquito in December?” I guess that’s what happens when you leave the threshold unguarded for several hours, you get mosquitoes in the house in December, three days before christmas (Christmas, that day which he sensed approaching, but that the writer had, up to this point, been unwilling to address directly. He now addressed Christmas, but only paranthetically).



The writer moved the chromebook back to the marble island. He faced the great mirror again, the mirror on the great North wall of the Universal Kitchen. He acknowledged the generative nurturing adult. He acknowledged the tenderness of this moment. Then, he acknowledged that he had a job to do. Was it possible to do all of this, or to not do all of this? Was it possible to allow all of this to happen? 



Could he allow himself to acknowledge the text from his mother? Generative nurturing adult said, “yes”. He walked across the room to retrieve his painting of the blue snake in the upper left quadrant and placed it where he could see it as he worked. And a note that he’d written by the blue snake brought him back. it helped him to circle back. 



The note read as follows:

“There’s a return to the cabin in which we tell about the lemon cream cheese pastry and the cinnamon roll that your father really liked. There’s the bear. The strong strong bear.”

Back to the cabin! The writer returned to the great mirror in order to watch the middle-aged-man at the cabin. The cabin in the Lincoln National Forest in which he found shelter for two quiet night. 



The man at the cabin rose from his bed with the intention of going outside into the cold moonlight. He dressed in layers. The olive drab hooded jacket, which he’d bought in preparation for his poorly planned hitchhike, was beginning to feel like home. He put on his yellow elk skin work-gloves (Praise be to Elk Mother), checked to make sure his keys were in his pocket so that he didn’t get locked out, and then he went out into the cold night. The moon was especially bright. He sat in remembrance of all that he’d seen in the Moth(er). He gave thanks. 



He sat in vipassana meditation, or some semblance of a vipassana meditation...Let’s just say that it was a nod toward a vipassana meditation...That’s honest. lol (the writer did not literally lol, he was just seeing if he could work an lol or three into this text. He thought it was a funny thing to do, although he had still just barely cracked a smile. Maybe there was a little smile coming. No. still no authentic smile...but he was just slightly amusing himself).



He was nodding to the vipassana, that’s where we were. His trip outside was really just that, a nod. It was a nod to the moon. It was a willingness to put on the layers and go out in the cold. It was an invitation. It was a prayer. He walked around a little bit in the moonlight. He acknowledged the present moment for exactly what it was. Then he went back inside. 



Once inside, a sickness came over the middle aged man. It was his trauma. He sat in a comfortable chair, still wearing his hooded olive jacket and his yellow elk skin gloves (Praise be to the Elk Mother), and a sickness came over the man.



It was just then that the writer received a text from a dear artist friend. A sensitive man who painted with watercolors. A peacock with eyes. The writer sent a heartfelt thank you to his friend for sharing an image of his work.



“Oh god Derek! You don’t know how much this means to me right now! Peacock and eyes...I actually don’t know what this means to me right now either, but I know it’s important! I love you my brother! Please please please keep sending these. I quiver with anticipation. I’m not actually quivering now, but I did quiver earlier. Peace to you, my friend.”



Back to the man at the cabin:



The man at the cabin, in the olive hooded jacket, and the yellow elk skin gloves became sick. It was not a sickness of the body, but a sickness of the spirit (that was felt in his body, are they not the same?). 



He was distressed…



The writer had possibly broken scene too many times now...He was not immersed in the narrative any longer...He had allowed distractions in, possibly to the detriment of his work. “That was too much, in the sharing of the text to Derek,” he said to himself.

“What had happened there?” the writer wondered, “What if this falls apart and it never comes back together?” 



The writer allowed this fear to be. His thoracic back was aching. His nurturing, generative adult was asking him if he was hungry again. He was hungry. Maybe he needed a break. He could always try again later. Maybe tomorrow. He took several steps backward and sat on his three pillows (really? The writer tried taking three steps backward because that’s what he’d written in advance that he would do. But that felt very awkward. He found it much more natural to turn and walk a couple steps to the pillow, then turn around to finally find the half-lotus).



Day 4…. 8:20PM



“The writer may be pushing himself too hard,” said the generative nurturing adult.



The writer heard a text come in.



It was from his brother…



Brother:” are you still not talking to me?”

He felt the plot thicken..layers of life being added on layers...the long lost brother



“Is that really what your brother is to you?” asked the middle aged man of himself.

“What happened to the miracle, my friend?”



The generative nurturing adult wanted to feed the writer. “That’s just what mothers do,” she said, “Will you please eat?”



“Yes,” said the writer. I will eat.



“Thank you,” she said



Generative nurturing adult smiles...the first smile in hours from the man’s lips.



“Ahh….these are glorious days,” thought the writer, as he took two salmon fillets from the deep freeze. He thawed them for a moment under running water. He knifed the pieces of fish from their individual packaging. He oiled the skillet. He salted and peppered. He added a dash of Mrs. Dash. “There’s a little garlic powder,” he said gayly. Then, he covered the skillet and set the heat on medium. As the writer completed his description of the food prepartion, the fish began their sizzling.



It was only then that he realized just how hungry he was. His mouth watered at he aroma coming from the skillet. He sensed a satisfaction in a very primal part of his being, the part of our being that just wants to eat.

 

The writer’s brother texted again…



Brother: I hope you have a merry christmas

He smelled the lemon pepper mixed with the scent of the fish. His brother was a chef. Or a cook. Depending on what job he was at now. Whether he wa a chef or a cook, his brother liked food, and he was an expert in its preparation. 



“Will I say yes to this miracle?” That was the question that the middle-aged-man asked himself. “Maybe a higher power should be consulted here.” “Or maybe you’ve become your own higher power now?” “How can we know?”



 He was now facing south. Which, by the way, is not the opposite of North. “It’s not some kind of taboo to face South now is it?” he asked himself. Well, my sense of humor is still working, isn’t it. That’s a good sign. Not taking myself too seriously.”





“It will make this process more difficult if you open up those issues with your brother,” the writer said to himself, “But what the hell...as long as we’re working miracles, why not?” Maybe the South would have something to say about this. He cracked open his Bill Plotkin book, Wild Mind. page 72 and 73

 

“The underworld of the soul is a wilderness, an Outback defined not by a particular geographical location but by a state of consciousness, a frame of mind, a realm of the psyche in which meaning, metaphor, and symbol percolate from there generally invisible depths and flow through our moment-to-moment experience like creatures from another world.”

Sometimes it seems to be a circus world, but more generally it's a sacred one, a heaven or a hell exuding eloquent signs of portent or promise. Here, denizens of our personal unconscious mingle, strangely, with archetypes of the collective human unconscious and creatures of the terrestrial wild, and it is often difficult to discern which are which. To our astonishment or bafflement, our own individual Souls might appear and a great variety of shapes and sizes. Characters from Dreams and Nightmares materialized out of nowhere. We find ourselves faced with unavoidable and seemingly faded tasks and trials, supremely challenging Adventures, perhaps impossible but none the less necessary ones, and we recognize that how well we engage with these quandaries will determine whether or how fully we will realize our destiny in this lifetime. Every move we make seems critical and fraught with significance.

Bill Plotkin, Wild Mind

 

There it was...the miracle continues… of course it does...it must...the miracle is the only true course..We are either agreeing with the miracles that are so naturally flowing through us, or we are suffering...every text, every phone call, every moment we have the opportunity to say yes. And so we say yes.



And so it was that the writer decided to open up communication with his brother.



First things first...the fish smelled incredible. He was ready to nourish his body with some well-needed protein. “Thank you generative nurturing adult?” said the writer. “Thank the mother of all Salmon for this meal! Thanks be to God! Thanks be to the blue snake with the turned up nose that starts at the bottom and goes all the way to the top! Thanks be to the tree Goddess. Thanks be to the exceptionally strong men working next door for their part in the ONE ceremony today. Thanks be to the strong strong bear…

“Water!” the man exclaimed. The man had taken in no fluid today that he could recall. He sat at the kitchen table next to his watercolors. He ate fish and drank water. With a heart of gratefulness he ate the fish and drank the water. “Water, my fluid brother! Praise be to the water in all its fluidity!



The man prayed for his brother. A prayer of hope. A prayer of kindness. A prayer of reconciliation. A prayer of joy. A prayer of honor and respect. The man prayed for his brother...perhaps for the first time...ever? For the first time in many many years, and he’d never prayed for his brother like this before. The middle-aged man acknowledged that.



The middle-aged-man texted his mother:



Son: are you well?

It is my hope that you are well.

Smiley face

My mother

My lovely mother



Hours later: 



Mother: sorry didn’t see this earlier

We did dinner for marls fam tonight

I am well 

Kissey face emoticon



Son: I am proud of you (blushey smiley face emoticon)



Mother: what for??



Son: Oh, you need me to tell you again? My pleasure. I am proud of you for the way you hold form with such grace in this world. I am proud of you for the way you care for your people at work. I am proud of you because I look up to you and I want to grow up to be very much like you. I am proud of you because you care. Because you give. Because you love. Because you are honest. Because you are genuine. Because you are open. You are generous. You are nurturing. You are kind. You are compassionate. It is for these reasons and many more that I can honestly say that I am proud of you.





He returned to the text that his brother had sent him thirty minutes ago, just as he was about to prepare the fish. He read them again.



Brother: Are you still not talking to me?

I hope you have a merry christmas



He could sense this thing in his brother’s words that made him leery. The middle-aged-man asked the writer to take over for this text. Who better to send a text than a writer, right?



Writer: Yes, my brother! Merry christmas to you as well. I pray that the magi will arrive, knocking at your door, bearing gifts of myrrh, and frankincense and whatever the hell else it was...gold! It was gold!..that’s what I pray for you, my brother! That the wise men knock at your door tonight because there’s a star over your roof and there was no room at the inn, so the Christ child gets born at your house tonight! That’s my christmas prayer for you, my lovely broher! My sweet and kind, caring, compassionate brother. My younger brother of four years. My wise and well travelled companion on this road! Hell, you’ve seen so much of the world yourself, you might just want to become a magi right now and go out and follow that star to some other brother’s house! I love you! Merry christmas.



Brother: Shit, brother...I don’t know what part of that to take as sarcasm or not



Middle-aged-man: None. none at all. It’s all pure unadulterated love!

That’s all I’ve got today, brother. I broke down. I died. I got resurrected. And now I’m just in love, and I see that you, my friend, are the risen Christ

Brother: alright. Let’s talk soon

I’m not sure what that says about the Christ, but let’s talk about it soon



Middle-aged-man: Yes. when is good for you?



Brother: I’m good now



Christmas day also

Got no plans



Middle-aged-man: Gimme a minute. Finish eating. I’ll call

 

The middle-aged-man and his brother reconnected over the phone. It had been over a year since they had seen each other at their grandfathers funeral. Only time and love will tell what that reconnection will do between them. They did, however, find some common ground concerning the psychedelics. 



The writer’s brother had been attending ayahuasca ceremonies. The brothers touched on a new language of healing between the two of them. The brother wondered if the writer might be interested in attending a ceremony in Colorado in late January. The writer was, of course, interested. But with family, the writer knew that he must hold on to these hopeful plans very loosely.



The brother, like his father, was prone to verbal abuse, shaming, and general loudness and rudeness. The middle-aged-man, although he was interested in reconciliation, did not intend on subjecting himself to any of that.



It is important to note here that the middle-aged-man abused his younger when they were young. Physical abuse. Emotional abuse. Verbal abuse. The older brother had heaped it on his brother when they were young. 



The middle-aged-man had made his attempts to make it right between them, but that trauma still ran deep and unacknowledged in his brother’s being.



“Okay brother, it was good to talk to you. I’m getting tired now. I need to get off the telephone soon,” said the middle-aged-man.



The younger brother was having a hard time hearing his older brother. The younger brother had been asking the writer to take an oath of loyalty for the last five minutes or so.



“There needs, to be a commitment here, my brother. We have to swear an oath of loyalty to one another. We are family, and nothing runs deeper than that. You don’t understand how powerful this could be. We need to make this commitment to one another, that we will never betray one another.”



The younger brother’s plea went on and on. The writer tried to explain that he was not interested in taking any oaths of loyalty.



“Kyle,” he said, “I’ve broken every promise that I’ve ever made in my life. Why would I make a promise to you that when I don’t know that I can keep it. All I can say for certain is that I am here with you, now. I’m having this conversation with you because I care about you. I hope I can be here for you in the future as Life permits. But, I’m not ready to take any blood oaths. That is not something that I am prepared to do.”



The younger brother was having a hard time letting it go. There was more convincing. There was more loud talk, talk that made the middle-aged-man feel like he did when he was speaking with his dad. 



“Okay, bud. I’ve got to go now. Let’s talk on Christmas day. How about that? Would you like to talk on Christmas day?”



“Nothing that is real can be threatened.

Nothing that is unreal exists.”

ACIM

 





