Day 3 December 21, 2019

Winter solstice

6:30AM



Those who see all creatures in themselves

And themselves in all creatures have no fear.

Upinashad

Darwin’s Prophecy:



Let the prophecy of Darwin be spoken forth. Let it be recieved. Let it be known that he was a prophet shining the light of salvation into this world. Let it be known that he suffered with the Christ in what he brought forth. Let it be known that he was fully human, fully tender and vulnerable in his efforts, and fully aware of the gravity that his message held. Let it be known that he brought forth his message with grace and dignity. 



Let it be known that science is a western Yoga. Let it be practiced. Let it be informed by Spirit. Let it inform the forms in which Spirit is practiced. Let it be known. 



The rational mind is not left behind as we transcend it. The age of reason, dear reader, was not a mistake. The scientific method is to be felt, and known and experienced. Let it be known that the practitioners of this yogic form are holy men, even if they themselves do not acknowledge that. It is another form of storytelling based in all matter which is all holy and compassionate and holds the story of unity within its very fabric. Matter is not separate from Spirit. All matter is the Christ. All is one. Praise be to all infinite matter!



This is the message that demands no attention. This is the message that forces no obedience. This is the message that is folded in on itself until the great contraction has ended this cycle.

It is only death that finally brings all form to its knees. And this death is holy and compassionate in and of itself. This death will come to those in lab coats. This death will come to those in monks robes. All are equal…but…there is depth. 



There is depth, dear reader. And this is what we are discovering here together. We are discovering how to acknowledge the depth, while not elevating ourselves above others (Thank you, brother Ken Wilber)





The Dying God

 

The old man waited patiently in the jungle clearing. White robes, flowing beard----a dying god---waiting for the man who had much to do with his imminent demise. Sounds of struggle emanated from the jungle brush just beyond the perimeter of the clearing. Using his staff, the old man lowered himself onto a large fallen tree. The disturbance in the underbrush grew nearer. 



Finally, a figure arose from the multitude of wide leaves. And there she stood, just having emerged from the bush. Se was a troubled woman in her mid-thirties—victorian skirts, disheveled hair wilted from humidity, face stained by dirt. She panted from her exertion. She stood there for a moment, relieved to be free from the forest from which she’d just stumbled. She scanned the clearing; her eyes met the old man’s. 



“My Lord?” she said, as she stumbled to stand before him.



“Yes, daughter,” He said.



She crumbled at his feet. Her eyes were now fixed on the patterns in her skirt. Tears began as silent, intermittent convulsions in her torso. Then, deep sobs arose from her chest. Her face contorted. Her eyes rose again to meet the old man’s gaze. Her mouth cracked open in tight expression of grief and thin strands of saliva stretched between her upper and lower lips. She remained there for quite some time. Her breathing steadied as her eyes met His. 



She raised herself slowly to her knees. Then she allowed her torso to collapse into the old man’s lap, hugging his abdomen. His hands naturally came to her head in an effort to comfort.

The two remained like this for a long moment as birds chattered and screeched in trees overhead.

 

“Emma?” said the old man, “Where is Charles?”



“He would not come,” she said. “His stomach is troubling him, and he is filled with anxiety at the thought of seeing you.”



“That is understandable,” said the dying God. “Emma, sit with me.”



Emma lifted herself from the old man’s lap and sat beside him now. She slumped, but she supported herself.



“All Gods must die Emma. It is how it has always been, and how it will always be. You know this to be true. I am merely the projection of what cannot be held in one form. I am only one projection of G_d, one image who points to that which is ALL that is real.”



Emma noticed that a small group of chimpanzees had gathered around them. An adolescent chimp approached the old man and jumped up in his lap. The old man looked thoughtfully into the primate’s eyes. The young chimp’s mother sat down in front of Emma, offering her curled hand. Emma could somehow sense the motherliness in this creature that seemed so horrifyingly familiar in form to herself—hands, eyes, feet, and breasts.



“I am the God of metaphor, Emma, the God of story. Just as all life has changed over time, so do our Stories. This form that you see now, this form that you practice, this lense through which you see life, must pass away to make room for a less…how should I say? A less fatherly figure? Less fatherly, Emma, but not to exclude the Father. The mother is rising Emma. The mother needs to be known if your species is to continue on its path of transmutation. I know that it is difficult for you to understand. I see that you are dying a death. I know that you are hurting. I see you, child. I see you. Let us rest there for a moment. Will you rest there for a moment with me? I see you Emma….Rest with me here for a moment. Let me hold you…



There is a long pause (a menopause)...Emma cries….Emma sobs...She begs for this to be taken from her...She knows this is more than she can hold...She is held by the spirit of this being that is passing into new form.

 

Being speaks…. “This death that you are dying is still the way of the cross, Emma. It is still the way that you have been shown. But, the way that you see me is changing. Your very perception of who I am is transmuting, if you will. This image is evolving, just as all forms have evolved before me. Novel forms are created from this process. You, my daughter are a novel form. You, my daughter, are being born again. Your species is being born again every moment. Without an understanding of this evolution, humanity cannot transcend the binary. Without this understanding the human species is trapped in the delusion of good and evil, trapped in a static prison. 

 

This evolutionary understanding is a result of the birth of the age of reason. Spiral dynamics. The serpent which spirals toward the infinite center of the sun and is drawn infinitely deeper and deeper into this consciousness. Your species is not static. Life is not static. Life is like a thundercloud changing, and ever changing. You must reckon yourself to this knowledge in order to experience the One-ness of all life. 



Your husband has discovered a key to unlocking the door to a much broader room, a more expansive field of consciousness. There will be those who take this message and turn it in to something that is not. There will be those who will say that Charles is a heretic. He will be mocked and hated by some for many many years to come, but this is the promise being fulfilled for those who choose to embrace the deepest callings. This is the very heresy that brings your species into a deeper communion with who I really AM. Just as Christ was a heretic, so are the ones who carry the light after him.



It is no different with you, Emma. You are carrying this. You have said yes to your husband and you have said yes to life. He has carried this as far as it will go. It is coming Emma. There is no stopping it. If it is not Charles, it will be someone else. The message of the prophet must amplify the One-ness in the ears of the people. The message of the true prophet recognizes all as ONE and the one as part of the ALL.

 

 

Those who see all creatures in themselves

And themselves in all creatures have no grief.

How can the multiplicity of life

Delude the one who sees its unity?

 

The Self is everywhere. Bright is the Self,

Indivisible, untouched by sin, wise

Immanent and transcendent. He it is

Who holds the cosmos together

Upanishad







Day 3...8:56AM



The middle-aged man was, once again, standing at the marble island in the kitchen of the adobe house on the Eastern High Plains. Seventeen years ago, the sky was filled with red dust in this town where the man still lived. 



The man heard Dan G, his roomate making his way down the stairs. He was talking on his telephone by way of his headphones, dressed in his heavy, black jacket, kind of gliding along as he always seemed to do. Dan ended his conversation with his cousin, Dee. 



“Going for a walk?” said the middle-aged man. 



“Yes, sir.” said Dan.



“Well, I’ll go with you. Just let me get my jacket and some shoes.”



They got in Dan’s white Chevy Malibu and made the short drive to the track



They talked as they walked. The air was brisk. The golden grass on the infield of the track glimmered with frozen-white sparkling dew. The two men both proclaimed the walk a prayer for Dan’s health. Dan was concerned about his weight and the lack of physical activity in his life. The two friends reveled in one another’s company, as they always did when they had time together. 



Dan was now improvising quasi-Shakespeare-pentameter while the middle-aged man practiced his Irish accent, of which Dan was his teacher. They walked on the oval track for twenty minutes, renewing their friendship and proclaiming their undying love for one another. 



As they finished their walk. Dan collected a blue prayer flag from the track in remembrance of the prayer for health that they’d made together. They returned to the great adobe house in the Universal white Malibu. 



The middle-aged-man prepared oatmeal, as Dan NEVER cooked! They ate breakfast, trading inspiration, revelation, and much joy between themselves. They considered the hoi polloi. They watched building 7 fall again, that forgotten archive of New York City’s 9/11. They considered how the human species might suffer a death of the macro-ego. And finally, the Cliffs of Moher (More) where so many people had cast themselves into the sea to meet their own end. 



This was the usual gravity of their conversations. They were not men of shallow nature. Not today, at least. Not today, dear reader! Today they were alive and full of piss and vinegar! HaHa!



The middle aged man invited Dan to read Darwin’s prophecy. Dan read, then it was time for him to go. He had an appointment with his girlfriend. Before the two men parted each other’s company, they hugged one another as they recited the serenity prayer. This was their tradition. It had been some time since the middle-aged man had been to an AA meeting, it took him a moment to catch up with the prayer.



The writer returned to his work of writing in the Universal kitchen.



“Who is this?” Wondered the writer as he read a poem he'd found in his own handwriting. “It looks like Hafiz to me,” he responded to himself, “but we didn’t make a note of it, did we?” Forgive us, dear reader. We believe it to be Hafiz as translated by Ladinsky…with no title. Oh, please excuse us, dear reader.



We present to you, almost undoubtedly, our good friend, Hafiz!



Inside this new love, die.

Your way begins on the other side.

Become the sky.

Take an axe to the prison wall.

Escape.

Walk out like someone suddenly born into color.

Do it now.

You're covered with a thick cloud.

Slide out the side. Die,

and be quiet. Quietness is the surest sign

that you've died.

Your old life was a frantic running

from silence.

The speechless full moon 

comes out now.

The day progessed. The deaths and the resurrections continued. One moment passed away. Another moment was born. Peace was made. Wars were waged. People lived. People died. There is no accounting for the space of the rest of this day in the record. It was not until later that evening that the man returned to his writing.



Day 3….7:21PM



The middle-aged man stood, once again, in the great kitchen. The sun had already set on the world outside. Three lights burned brightly over the marble island. The writer moved three, thick, blue books clockwise around the marble slab island. He could now see himself in a great mirror. He now faced North into the great kitchen’s Universal Mirror. He faced the mirror in the North, the direction of the generative, nurturing adult according to a Bill Plotkin book that he’d read half of, Wild Mind. The writer now faced North into the great mirror. He now witnessed himself writing. 



He breathed. The man in the mirror breathed and looked deeply into his own figure. Black rimmed glasses. Overgrowing beard (which his mother hated). He was thin. He looked tired. He looked hungry somehow. A little bewildered. Confused? He was reminded of how his face had shifted forms before him in this same mirror as he’d eaten the mushrooms that first time, showing him that he was not nearly as solid as he once believed himself to be. He was not solid, he was more like a thunderhead, constantly in flux.



The man in the mirror felt his fingers curl as they hovered over the keyboard, ready for their next destination. The man in the mirror embraced the miracle that already was. Then he backspaced over several words to correct a mistake.



He was finding himself in some kind of natural cycle. “Is this a writers cycle?” he wondered to himself. “It suits me,” he said out loud. And it did suit him on that day. For instance, he had fallen asleep just two-and-a-half hours before, holding himself, and somehow being held, as he was unable to find any comfort from Netflix. He was also unable to find any comfort from Eli, who, several times, scratched the middle-aged man on the nose and cheeks as if he’d wanted something that could not be given. And it was true, the man had nothing to give to the cat except himself. The man admittedly observed himself wanting something from the cat that he could not seem to extract, a comfort that he could not quite find in the petting of his fur. “Everybody’s got a hungry heart,” thought the man to himself, “Cat’s and people alike.”



When he awoke from his short nap he felt as if he might have slept all night. But it was only 7:00PM, which he discovered as he cracked open the chromebook. The man wondered about the voices in his writing from the day before. He wondered about moving from past to present tense and jumping from third to first person. These were the concerns of the one who had been married to an English teacher for twenty years. This writer who was born to die for his dear reader’s birth.



He thought about Dave. A more recent writer in his life. Dave had encouraged him before Eileen’s email. They’d had several meaningful email exchanges, in which Dave was encouraging the writer. Eileen’s communication had come with power that would not have been possible without the groundwork that Harbor Dave had laid. 



The writer stood at the kitchen island in his olive drab coat that he’d bought at Wal-Mart for his poorly planned hithhiking adventure. He observed himself in all humility, facing North toward the generative-nurturing-adult. He observed the present tense pushing into a narrative being told in the past. He breathed in. He breathed out. “Is that what I need?” wondered the author. “Another title? A label? A descriptor? A profession?” Because that’s what he was feeling like now. He was feeling like a writer, an author, a man with a job to do. A man with a calling. A man with a purpose, because these words, this project, he felt was living through him now. This project had become the pulse of his life.



And because he was on medical leave, he had all the space to allow this to happen. Because he lived at Dan’s house rent free he had a safe and warm space to allow this Life to emerge. 



The Universal heater kicked on to warm the great adobe home.



North, the direction of the generative, nurturing, adult. He’d written a letter, upon Bill Plotikin’s direction. It was "a love letter from the generative, nurturing adult" to himself. 

The writer wondered if he could find it in his google drive. He located the file. He opened it. He cut and pasted it, acknowledging that the author was not disappearing in this moment. “Love never comes the same twice,” said the middle aged man to himself. “The miracle never happens the same twice,” he said joyfully as he accepted the sense of honesty that he was experiencing with himself right now, in the present tense. And he realized that he truly was nurturing himself in this moment.

And this was the love letter that came from the man’s generative-nurturing-adult nearly four months before:

September 2, 2019

A love letter from my nurturing, generative adult:



I see that you have been doing some incredibly profound work here. What was it, about eight months ago that you were in such a painful place? Do you remember everything that has happened since then? You are taking the next step in your creative, spiritual process. You are finding out what it means to give yourself the compassion that you need. I want to support you in this process. I am so grateful to you for allowing me to be here with you right now. 



Do you remember those poems that Pasha shared with you at the Life Healing Center? There was one from Mary Oliver. There were others. They were encouraging you to take that next step. I know that you do not understand all the “whys” behind all of this. That’s okay. You do not have to understand. Just know that you are loved. More understanding will come in time.



How can I support you? How can I help? That is what I am here to do. I want to help.



Right now I can see that you are trying to understand what it means to be of service to your world. Just this morning you went to work, and before you put the key in the door, you voiced that question to the Universe and all the people that you would see, “How can I help?” You are discovering how to be of service to this world in a way that is special to you.



Just this morning you were reading in the Bill Plotkin book, Wild Mind. You were identifying areas of your life where you can be of service. What were those areas? Do you remember? Physical Therapy: In regards to physical therapy you did some yoga, and you got out the book on the iliopsoas. You are trying to develop your skills. You made an effort. 



Music: You are considering the possibility of putting on a house concert, gifting your music to those in your community that might appreciate it.



You are continuing to go to alcoholics anonymous meetings in order to support those who are still suffering from this crippling ego-disease. Just last night, you spoke with Jerry and sent him a text afterwards letting him know that you wanted to support him in his sobriety.



You have been exploring different spiritual paths. You just got through reading, and doing all the exercises in that book The Shamanic Journey—Therapeutic Shamanism (Paul Francis). You discovered your Power Animal, Snake. You discovered the Snake Clan ceremonial area and had some really profound visions.



Just yesterday, as a prayer, you picked up trash on the road outside the house, a prayer that you might understand how to be of service to your world.



How can I support you in your view of yourself? 



Do you remember how you have been able to parent and support all those fragmented parts of your being, those parts of your being that, from reading the Eckhardt Tolle books you were simply calling the “ego,” but now after reading the Bill Plotkin book you may want to call them “subpersonalities.” There has been so much work going on.



Do you remember how you memorized the third step prayer while you were at Viewpoint? Do you remember how you opened up your heart to the “entire psychic change?” Do you remember how you went to approximately three hundred AA meetings in about one hundred and eighty days? You have really showed some commitment to this process. 



I am mentioning all these things that you have done in order to encourage you. But, it’s not so much about what you have done, is it? All of these things are very important, and very necessary to your process. But you have been trusting. This has all been so much about relationship. This has been so much about my relationship with you. You have been experiencing me, and I have been experiencing you.



Do you remember when you were at Sunrise, the psychiatric unit in Roswell, New Mexico. After you got the blue paper pajamas and the cavity search, what did you pray? “God help me.” Do you remember standing there in the hall and praying that? And then what did you do? You started looking for me, your deeper Self. You started looking for Spirit. Do you remember that woman who was stuck in that chair, curled in the fetal position for two days? Do you remember her? Yes you do? What did you do? You went over there and you started to pray for her. You pulled that chair over next to her and you started breathing. You simply made yourself aware of your own breath while holding her well-being in your heart.

Do you remember Clinton, the man who placed his hand on you and prayed for “restoration.”



Just yesterday you had a profound gratefulness experience. Just yesterday you employed the aggressive, protective nature of Snake (in your imagination) to reclaim your power from your father who, in his blind suffering, was continuing to injure you.



This is the process. You are engaged in the process. Continue giving yourself to this loving process. Keep looking for ways to express the love that has been placed in your heart. Keep looking inward for the help that you know will come. 



Warmest Embrace

Deeper Power

Warmest Embrace...That’s exactly what the writer needed to hear. Is that how an author disappears? By first becoming a writer? “I didn’t just now become a writer,” thought the man. I’ve been writing for most of my life. He stood for a long moment, very calmly, tapping his fingers gently on the rich marbled surface, at the island in the kitchen.



“The island,” thought the middle-aged-man. He’d recently struck up a friendship with a young man named Kalei from the big island of Hawaii. He’d had the honor of visiting him in the hospital the same day that he’d had his hip surgery. A couple of days before he’d shared some mushrooms with him, giving away his sacred medicine as he felt lead. The writer stepped back from the island and stood for a moment, feet together in a simple moment of stillness...peace. The writer allowed himself a moment of peace. He allowed his mind to clear for a moment.



He recalled the night before, the writing he’d experienced. The writing that felt as if it was flowing through him. He stood there for hours, just allowing that experience to happen, sensing that something special was happening, trying not to hold on to tightly while also saying “yes” to the strength that was required to maintain that form. 



“Holding form.” He’d been using those words so frequently recently, ever since he’d made peace with those Kachina dolls in Dan’s display cabinet. That was well over a month ago now. So much had happened since then. So many important decisions had been made. “How many journeys with the medicine now?” He asked himself. 



He stepped back from the island, trying to count. He stepped way back and took a seat on the kitchen floor, his back propped against the cabinets under the sink. He got up to retrieve three pillows from his room. He came back into the kitchen. He placed the three pillows in front of the sink. And it was there that he sat for several minutes, allowing the memories of his medicine journeys to come back to him freely.



There was the Kachina Doll trip, in which he’d seen that everything was breathing and pulsing and nothing was nearly as solid as he had once thought it was. There was the buzzing or intense fluttering that happened in his left ear when he’d looked deeply into his own eyes at the great kitchen mirror. And when he reached out to touch the hand of the outstretched Chief’s hand, he heard that same fluttering in his ear. 



He also saw himself as an honorable and noble primate, one who had raised three children to reproductive age on the Easter(n) High Plains. Then he had felt the love of the craftsman in the doorway of his room, and the tender heart of the architect in the design of the great adobe house. He then saw that grout in between the large mexican tiles was pulsing like a river. 

He prostrated himself before the Chiefs, laying on top of this pulsating and breathing tile surface. He was saying “yes” to taking his position among them, as he prostrated himself before them, giving them all the honor that they deserved for holding form for all these years. 



He was saying “yes” to his own participation in all the forms. The man had rejected so many forms because of the rejection that he so often felt within his own being. As he came close to men who were strong in their form, he felt jealous, and angry, and hurt. But that night, in this sacred ceremony, the middle-aged-man found himself saying “yes” to participating in those forms, despite the inadequacy that he found in himself, those “others,” and in all form. 



He’d seen the snake on that trip and he could only look at him briefly. The snake was blue that night. He’d also witnessed the fractal patterns that had inspired the art of the Hindus and also the patterns that had inspired the native Americans, those wild-indigenous ones. Soon afterward, his friend Chris had blessed the middle-aged-man, saying that he was “one that uses all of the buffalo.” 



The ceremony came in to full swing that night after the man took off his clothes, went outside in the cold, and laid on the cold, wet earth for a short while. He came back inside, stepped on a piece of sacred cat food, had an encounter with himself in the mirror, flipped on the lights above the display case “accidentally”, went back to his room, ate the rest of the medicine, had an immeasurably slow walk down the hall. He removed his ring, his necklace, his glasses, and then interacted with the tile (which was the earth), the mothers (who were in the basement supporting all human form), the objects of this earth, and the Oso. It was then that he’d encountered the Chiefs (in the form of the Kachinas). 



That night he saw that he was supported in the fabric of the Kosmos. He was supported in the fabric of his community. He felt that he was supported that night, in a deeper way than he could encounter without the medicine. 

 

The man’s next journey started after a night of travail. He lay in anguish on the bathroom floor for much of the night, which resulted in a text to Dan, “I know why Cliff is dead. I know why Chek keeps drinking.” That’s when he ingested the medicine.



After taking in the medicine, he crawled into bed with a heaving and sobbing pain in his being, childhood alienation and abuse at the forefront of his consciousness. He thought that he might be in line for a “bad trip.” (a challenging experience). He wondered if the ceiling fan might become a spider. It didn’t. It became a sea turtle. And when he closed his eyes he saw a nursery, and children’s toys. He was comforted by a deep wisdom from within, and as he began to trust the medicine and the ONE who had provided the medicine he began to weep harder. 



It was in that very moment, still at the beginning of his journey with the medicine, when he reached out to the Bence family. He tried Rebekah first, the one he called "sister". No answer. Then he tried to call Jolie, but he could not get through. Finally, he called Tim. He was honest with Tim about the fact that he’d eaten the mushrooms. Tim embraced the middle-aged-man with as much compassion as could be imagined over the phone. Tim, the man who had shown him the Christ all those years ago. Timothy, the man who showed him first what it was like to be a mystic, to be a shaman (the title cannot be appropriated, I know, but there it is anyway), to be a healer, to hold a deeper perspective for someone who could not hold one for themselves.

 

Timothy was the man’s spiritual mentor from the past. Tim was a Christian mystic from Oklahoma City. He was one of the men that stood in for the young man as “father” until the man knew that Tim could no longer hold that position for him. 



Over ten years ago the man had to walk away from the covering that Timothy and Jolie had provided and all the love that their family had shared with his. The man walked away from them just as he’d walked away from so many other relationships in his life. He walked away with anger and resentment in his heart. He walked away with a grudge against Christian fundamentalism. He walked away with revulsion at the deliverances that he’d endured. He walked away dissatisfied that the God of the bible belt had not healed him. That’s how he had walked away.

 

The middle-aged-man and his old mentor, Timothy, conversed that day for as long as it took. Was it hours? Was it one hour? The middle-aged man does not know now. Tim, once again gave him the father’s blessing, the one he’d already given the man years ago. The blessing that he’d never taken back. The man sat naked on the bathroom mat, asking for another blessing from a man who never took the first one back. But, that is exactly what’s so hard for a man to accept when his own father is the one who continues to blame his children for his own misery. The middle-aged-man was honored by his old friend, Tim. The middle-aged-man addressed Timothy as “Chief” over and over again, in recognition of the prior journey.



After the phone conversation with Tim, he lay there naked on his bathroom floor. And this is when the middle-aged-man heard these words in his heart: “This is what it’s like to be raised from the dead, Son.” 



It took him some time to make the journey from the floor to the bathtub and his body did feel like it had suffered some great trauma. He vocalized and called out like a wild man as his body was resurrected from this state of trauma. He cried out with the voice of that noble being who he’d seen before, the noble, aromatic human of the Eastern High Plains. 



It was then that the man found himself baptizing his own body in the warm water of the tub. Over and over again he received the baptism. His loud masculine vocalizations continued as his body was resurrected. Wisdom came over the middle-aged-man as he said to himself, “That’s not going to be enough is it?” He knew that this resurrection would require something deeper than primal cries. And so it was that he surrendered himself in a deeper way to the death and resurrection process that Christ had shown him so long ago. 



He laid back gently in the tub and received a vision of surrender into his very being. He rolled over sideways in the fetal position, half of his body embraced by the warmth of the water, half embraced by the cool of the air. He saw these moss and vegetation covered vertebra rising up from a swamp and he connected that vision with his friend, Jeremy. He saw Michelle, his most recent lover, as a Snake Woman. He envisioned himself sitting on some kind of throne with Michelle, a vision that the writer now believes to be more of a “temptation” than a vision for the future (for the middle-aged-man did not have the heart to try and support another household). But he contacted Michelle again after that and walked their relationship to its end. He told Michelle that he’d allowed himself to fall in love with her, but he didn’t know at all what that meant, that he had no resources with which to support her family, and that he had no intention of making any promises to anyone. They wished each other well, and it was over. They had spoken only briefly as friends since then. 



The next day the man was baptized publically at a fundmentalist church in the panhandle of Texas ["should i really call it a fundamentalist church?" wondered the man, what about your vision? your understanding? that the “fundamentalist” church has been able to carry a part of Christ that no one else could carry? Yes, it is a fundamentalist church. What does that mean? I don’t know, we’ll change it if we have to.] The people there were all incredibly kind and loving, and it was also a fundamentalist church, where exclusivism is the accepted norm. That’s all I mean by that. His good friend, Justin from work baptized him and it was exactly as it needed to be.



It was on his third trip that he’d met the Moth and the Mountain. He went to the cabin in the Lincoln forest with the intent of making peace with the personal Christ. The one that is traditionally called Jesus in this part of the world. The one that was, historically, most likely called something more like Yeshua while he was here. But, I am not a scholar of history or the bible, so I will leave it at that. 



The important thing is that I took my bible with me, ready to make peace with a personal savior that I had met well over twenty years ago. (Just realized that I crossed over into the first person. What is to be done about that? That is the appearance of the author in all his non-disappearance. Please bear with me as I make peace with all of this.)



I tripped hard...He tripped hard...the writer did...the middle-aged man tripped very hard. He took his medicine in two doses as seemed to be the path that he’d been shown. A first dose to make peace with the more external layers of being, and also to make sure that the trip was valid and essential. 



There was, as before a period of time when he found himself giving up the trip, surrendering to the possibility or even the very present reality that he’d gone as far as he would be allowed to go. There was a surrendering in this place, a willingness to walk away with just what he had experienced thus far, which had not seemed to be a very profound psychedelic trip. As peace was made around this, He received a vision of himself eating the remaining mushrooms that he’d brought with him to the cabin. And so he did.



He poured a glass of water and dumped the remaining medicine in after it. He allowed the mushrooms to hydrate for a while. He stood there naked in the cabin with the glass of wet mushrooms in his hand. He looked down into the hydrating mushrooms and what he saw was touching. He saw the beauty of these beings being resurrected in the water. Beautiful, yet quite serious too, like a great white shark might appear swimming below you in the water. I realized...he realized that these mushrooms could show him his death. They had a glow to them, they shimmered somehow in the low lighting of the cabin that night in the Lincoln National Forest. 



The man felt that, for himself, it was wise to not blend the mushrooms up or cover up their flavor with any other food product. For instance, he’d heard of people placing them in a peanut butter sandwich. He felt that, for him, it was important that he taste them, that he see them. He was trusting God, trusting the body that he’d been gifted that he would not be able to ingest them if he had no need. He was trusting that if his gag reflex rejected the medicine, he was not meant to eat the medicine. This was one protective measure that he felt was wise for himself, having already had a failed relationship with marijuana, a relationship in which he’d relied too heavily on. He had smoked too frequently and leaned on the medicine too much, despite the fact that he’d truly attempted to treat it like medicine. There are no guarantees. This is just how he had decided to take the medicine to help protect him from past mistakes.



The medicine was glowing in the clear glass in the water. He could hear its invitation. He took it all down. Then he went to the rug and to sit in prayer and meditation.



That night was the deepest yet he’d found himself buried in the soil. Many of the details are lost now. Suffice it to say that it was a surrender experience. A long surrender experience. He held his arms out to his sides, on his knees for a period of timelessness. It was as if he was identifying with the cross, but it was not at all ascetic in nature, he was not torturing himself, although he was actively engaging his body, actively exerting himself. In all compassion and gentleness he asked his body to engage in the process, to engage in the prayer of the cross that was being prayed through him. 



[The writer disengaged from his chromebook. He found himself in the kitchen. He walked outside, through the back door, and into the cold. He did some push-ups out there. He touched his toes several times. He came back inside, touched his toes again, then did some quad stretches in a single-leg-stance, actively engaging his body in this process, saying “yes” to the needs of his physical body while attending to the work on the screen. He was facing North, looking at the generative, nurturing adult that met his eyes in the mirror.]



I believe it is enough to say that I...the man at the cabin had an experience that descended into a being that was beyond the reach of words. Which is probably why the writer was having a difficult time describing it now. He sunk into the soil (although he was inside the entire time). He wondered if he would ever come back. Or he wondered how he would be shown the way back. The important thing is that he was shown the way back.



Hours later, the middle-aged-man thought the experience was over. He crawled into bed. A red, fleece blanket served as the top layer of insulation. The heater blew, keeping the cabin cozy. He crawled under the covers. Then he saw something. 



It was there…

On the red blanket.

It was a miller mother. It had been crushed. It was severely injured. There was moth dust all around its suffering body. He had, assumedly, crushed this moth. He was the one who had caused this suffering that he saw before him.

 

The man looked down upon this moth which rested in a valley on this red blanket, and he saw that the moth was suffering deeply. The way that one of his antennas convulsed, he may as well have been screaming in agonizing pain. He was reaching out to the man. The man moved his right index finger toward his trembling antennae. As his index finger approached the moth it became clear to him that there was nothing he could do. In fact, any attempt to intervene would only make things worse for the moth.



Since the man was a child, it had been his habit to put suffering animals out of their misery. He felt that it was somehow his duty. There was a long list of animals with whom he had interacted in this way. But this time was different. He was not going to try to help this Moth out of this world. The man was going to bear witness to his suffering. He knew that he would stay with the moth for as long as it took. “Will it be hours?” he wondered. “What if I have to stay here until morning?” he thought. “This could take an entire day.” But he stayed.



He withdrew his right index finger from the moth and he began to simply witnesss. He watched as the moth began to crawl, almost imperceptibly slow up the canyon in the red blanket. As he watched the moth in it’s agonizing journey, he somehow became the Moth. And the moth became the Christ. It just was. 



And the man can never know how long he watched the Christ crawling up that valley. But the man knew exactly what he was witnessing. He was witnessing what had already happened and what would happen again innumerable times until we all understood. The man was witnessing that which does not demand attention. The man was witnessing that which does not insist upon an audience. He was witnessing the ONE that takes no offense when attention is not given. He was witnessing the ONE who forgives. He was witnessing the consciousness that arose from deep within us all. This was the consciousness that arose from the depths. This was the form of consciousness that looked down from his cross and said the un-speakable. This was the one who chose to forgive, despite the deep convulsions and revulsions that he experienced on the cross. He reached out to those very ones who caused his anguish, and he chose to forgive. 



The middle-aged-man who sat on the bed in the cabin that night, was bearing witness to the deepest consciousness that he’d know, that which allows this suffering to happen in himself in order to break the heart of he who has the heart to witness. Praise be to the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost. As it was in the beginning, it now and ever shall be. World without end. Amen. Amen.



The Moth continued its slow journey up the valley created in the fold of the soft red blanket. It crawled until it stopped. It was still. It was then that the man engaged in an even closer reading of the moth. 



The Moth began to glow and shimmer and sparkle, just like spider eyes you might see in the summer when you take your flashlight outside and shine it on the ground. The moth sparkled in little green and yellow diamonds. And as the close reading continued, the man saw something else. There was the face of a cat at the forefront of the moth. It was there. A three dimensional face of a cat. It reminded the man of his cat Eli, honestly. The cat who was there in all his divinity for the man when he had taken his last medicine journey back home, at the great adobe house. 



It was during that journey that the man had seen the tail of a great serpent embodied in the cat’s tail. The man had been embraced by the Eli’s purring as he was turned over and over in the soil of the Great Turning. 

What the man saw in the sparkling light of the Moth, was the face of a cat. 



And it was then that he knew

It was the Lion of Judah.

And then…



The lions face slowly faded. The face faded, and the stillness of dying transmuted into the stillness of death. And the two iterations of  stillness were different in that there was no more sparkling and no more lions face. It was just the shell of a moth. And as this was happening, the light changed in the cabin. There was a yellow, glowing softness in the light that was before undectable to the man. And the man could not understand or comprehend the cause for such a change in lighting in a cabin lit so steadily by static light fixtures, but it was happening nontheless.



The author did not know from where the light emanated from. There seemed to be no explanation for this lighting change. The man gradually became aware of the gentleness that was embodied in this soft glow. And he knew that it was this light that was taking this being back home, perhaps. Perhaps this is the gentle light that celebrates the rejoining of a being into the One-ness? How could the author know. All the words are only fingers pointing to the moon. These words are only bearing witness to the freedom that the middle-aged-man experienced that night in bearing witness to the life and death of this majestic being. There was a presence that had passed through this Moth, and the man had witnessed it.



The man at the cabin in Lincoln County sat in reverence.





[The writer stepped away from the island, and he too sat in reverence on the pillows, witnessing this all again, for the first time somehow (and then again as the writer edits, he bears witness, adding another layer to the experience).]



The man at the cabin continued to sit. He breathed. He accepted what he had just seen. He prayed that he would never forget the gift he had just been given. 



The writer stepped back up to the island and began to type.



Time circled back on itself, just as it had at the cabin. For a brief moment, that which was unknowable was known. How many times had this same thing been witnessed, the author could not know. Perhaps this question was beyond his paygrade? 



The writer looked up, into the great mirror as he stood there in the Universal Kitchen. And as he met his own gaze, He found himself staring into the eyes of a suffering Christ. The Generative Nurturing Adult. 



He held the form. The dying Author held to the form, dear reader, to deliver this message to you today. He said “yes” to the form, which was the cross. He said “yes” to that suffering. He surrendered to that death in order that we might look to the North and see a Generative Nurturing Adult in ourselves. Say hello to your Mother, dear reader. The one who carried you in her womb. The one who nourished you. Say “yes” to whatever nurturing brought you to this day, in order to read these words, in the place that you now sit.



Selah (Pause in the Presence, dear reader…just a suggestion)



Earlier in the day, the man had stood in this exact spot, facing North as Dan told him how someone had offered to sell him some Canadian viagra. 

The middle aged man commented, “Canadian Viagra, it’ll keep your compass pointing North.” 

Is that merely comic relief, or does that have something to do with reproduction again. Or the maleness of God penetrating the femaleness of God. The writer did not know. “These are the jokes, kids. These are the jokes.” (he pictured the little green monster from Monster’s Inc sitting on the stool with the microphone.)



["But we’re still with the man back at the cabin. Please don’t forget about the man back at the cabin." wrote the writer.] 



The man in the cabin, the same man who’d just witnessed the life and death of Christ in the Moth, sat for a long while. He sat in reverence. Waiting for a peace in his spirit to move on from that sacred moment. 



He finally turned off the light, after communing with the trinity for some time in the three bulbs that hovered over his bed. It was a long time before he could bring himself to pull the switch. There doesn’t seem to be a hurry once the medicine is taken. Things slow way down.



The man did nothing with the body of the Moth. He felt that it would be folded into the soil, or the blanket, or another dimension, or something. He wasn’t sure where the boundaries were at that moment, or how that would all work itself out. But he was fine with allowing the body of the Christ to remain in the blankets, to be folded in as it were.



The man rested his head back into the pillow. He remained there for some time, thoughts and emotions and visions folding over and over in his being, braiding like a vine, rising up through his consciousness. A gift of living. A gift of the medicine. A gift of story. A gift of light in the darkness.



Suddenly…



A buzzing in his ear…

The same buzzing he’d heard when he’d looked deep into his own eyes in the mirror during his first medicine journey. The same buzzing that he’d experienced when he’d reached out to the Kachina doll, as the image of God and Man are reaching out to one another now in the image on the ceiling at the Sistine Chapel.



The fluttering moved to his arm. It buzzed up from his arm and back up to his hear. It was the Moth!



The resurrection. The man had just experienced the buzzing of the resurrection in his left ear, just as he’d heard it in front of the mirror at home, before any of this ever happened. The man could hear the moth bouncing against the window shade now. The buzzzing was disturbing to the man. He was deeply disturbed. 



As soon as the man was able to relax, the Moth returned again...time and time again this happened...And so it went. The resurrected Christ returned to the man again and again. 



The writer, the man who stood in the great kitchen documenting these events, stood there, fingers curled over the keyboard, holding form. 



He wondered about Timothy. He often wondered about Tim. This man who had shown him the Christ. Not just Tim, but his whole family. They had held their form. They had been able to accept him, to hold him when no one else was able. There had never been a sign of judgment. Only acceptance. Until now.



He didn’t know that to be true. There was nothing overt. There was nothing direct. There is suffering here now. There is doubt. There is fear of rejection. “Why won’t Tim return my phone call?” wondered the man. “Why is he so short and seemingly reluctant to respond to my texts. I cannot control that…This is how it goes when a man was raised by an angry clown who bashes his head into the glass. Even as we are given the blessing time and time again, we keep going back to that rejection. We keep telling ourselves that story of rejection. How do we leave that? How do we leave that rejection behind?" wondered the middle-aged-man.



The man at the cabin knew that he could not control any of this. It was a gift that he must receive. The writer’s thoracic back was hurting. His body needed a break from holding this form.

 

