Day 21

5:07AM





The writer awoke at 4:30AM. Eli was scratching the sheets again, but not quite as desperately as the night before. The writer felt the impossibleness of the task before him, finishing this book. He felt sure that he had gone too far, that he had tried to say too much. “Is that what it means to go past the point of no return?” wondered the writer.



He gave away the project. He felt the mountain was too high. He knew he was unable, or that he’d done something wrong. He’d gone too far. He should have ended it as he got on the turnpike to leave his mother’s house. “How can this be corrected?” he wondered as he lie in bed with Eli, the dominant cat of the residence.



He lay in bed with a headache. 



The writer reached out to his heavenly father



“Father?”

“Yes, Son.”

“Can we climb that mountain?”

“Yes son. We can climb it together. One step at a time.”



The writer drew himself a hot bath. He lingered in the warmth until Eli would not stop scratching on the door. “Okay, bud, Okay. I hear you. Okay, bud, let’s do this together,” chanted the author to his friend. He dressed in the same clothes from yesterday, light blue scrub bottoms and a comfortable white long sleeve.



The writer made his way to the kitchen. He opened his bible to a random page, which his mother had recently reminded him to do. He found Psalm 20 there.



Psalm 20



For the pure and shining one

For the end times, by King David



In your day of danger may the lord

Answer and deliver you



May the name of the God of Jacob 

Set you safely on high



May supernatural help be sent

From his sanctuary



May he support you from Zion’s fortress



May he remember every gift you have given him



And celebrate every sacrifice of love

You have shown him



Pause in his presence (Selah)



The writer reread the excerpt from Eileen’s book that had so deeply encouraged him yesterday. “The Universe is out to help me?” the dying author reminded himself.



The writer fed the feral cats who made peace with the cold on his back porch. The writer, with the cat food scoop in his hand, stepped out onto the exterior porch of the great Adobe home and he addressed the South. “Please South, Wild-one, he who was before language. He who is untamable and mostly unknowable to me. Please be with me today. Show me your wisdom. I need your help great mysterious one.”



The writer addressed the West. “My beloved muse! Please speak through me today. I need your insight. I need your wisdom. I need your passion. Come! Be my passion. Come! Inhabit this being. Rise up from within me. You, the individual. The one who questions. The one who explores the darkness. Come inhabit this vessel today.



The writer addressed the North. “Great Mother, the One who makes me oatmeal with green apples and cinnamon and nutmeg and honey! Thank you great mother for caring for me so deeply. Thank you for receiveing me back into your soil once I have died. Thank you for birthing me again. Thank you for integrating my trauma into your deep and loving fabric of being. I give you thanks, Great Mother. 



The writer addressed the East. “Ahhhh East! You tricky little devil! You always get me right where I need to be with your little tricks. You brought me into the depths hell with your meaningless meditation just to show me that there is great meaning flowing from within. You, my sacred fool, the one who just keeps loving and giving and offering yourself. Thank you for your wisdom, innocent one, the Universal Sage all together. You have given me so much! Be with me today. Speak through me!



The writer then turned in a circle again, addressing each and all the cardinal directions. “All of you! Come into this being. I have an impossible task of completion today. I am to resolve the unresolvable. I pray to you all. Come inhabit this willing vessel!



In the Spirit of circling back. In the spirit of the great serpent who was emerging in this world. In the spirit of spiral dynamics. In the Spirit of the Christ. The man reestablished his seat in the bathroom where this journey had started. He retrieved the half-crocheted blanket from the floor of his closet. He placed the milk carton with the pink towel over it as a desk in the bathroom. 



The writer started a mug of coffee in the Keurig. 



He referred to A course in miracles, Lesson 19: “I am not alone in experiencing the effects of my thoughts.”



 The writer flavored his coffee with some hazelnut creamer.



The writer made his way to the bathroom and took the tylenol with his first warm swig of coffee.



The writer sat in the small bathroom on the half-crocheted blanket that would never cover his family. There were books around him on the floor. He noticed that Eli had torn up some carpet as he scratched at the door while he had bathed this morning.



He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as Thich Nhat Hanh had instructed him.



He called on his Pema.



The writer sat, waiting for the next direction. Or non-direction, as the case may be. The crossroads. The non-path. He waited for that which was beyond the fork in the road.





Yesterday, after he’d taken the medicine. After he’d set himself free of the burden of real-time documentation. In the back yard, after he’d crunched the frozen grass with his bare feet. After a great chilling rush passed through his body. There was a ceremony that began. 



The man approached the small bridge that crossed a dry man-made stream bed. It was the little stream that fed the pond where the squirrels and the robins drank.



He sat on the warm black bridge as it had been covered with some kind of protective black rubber covering. As he came to a seated position, he noticed that there was bird shit on the bridge. He became curious about the bird shit. At first glance it looked terrifying to him, something that he did not want to look too closely at. But he allowed himself to get real close to it. He saw the partially digested seeds. He saw a white mucous which enveloped the green chalky meat of the shit. There was a ring of moisture around the shit that was evaporating before the man’s eyes in waves of heat-movement. He got closer and closer to the shit. 



He remembered what he’d written on the first page of his ACIM. His little mark of wisdom that he’d left there for himself and whoever would read the book in the future. “Even the most nutritious of foods eventually becomes excrement.” Selah



What once was looked good to eat. What once fed us. What once was delicious, eventually passes through our bodies and becomes shit.



“Yes, thought the man sitting on the bridge. How we deal with shit is most important!”



His boss, Fheb had once told him about how when she grew up in the phillipines they did not have toilet paper. She described in detail how they dealt with their shit with bear hands and a bowl of soapy water.



How did the Christ deal with his excrement? How did Hafiz and Rumi deal with their excrement. 



The writer had special wipes with which he could deeply clean his anus after a good shit. These men had no wipes. People in the past must have been much more deeply in touch with their excrement. Surely, this little thing must be a big deal. How do we work with our shit. How do I clean my ass once the body has purged the food that was once good to eat. How do I invite this food into my body for nourishment and how do I purge that which is no longer desirable.



In this was the heart of spiral dynamics, realized the writer as he sat looking at the bird shit on the bridge. We embrace form. The form passes through us. The form becomes useless. We leave the form behind. The excrement sings back into the soil to provide nutrients for mother earth. We transcend, finding other forms (other food. Manna fresh from heaven every day). And so our consciousnss deepens. 



And so it came to pass that the writer saw the great serpent arising as he meditated on the shit.



But, dear reader, The excrement meditation was not over. No. There was more to come.



The writer allowed himself to pass into pure experience. He became willing to leave the narrative behind. He was no longer trying to record all of his thoughts for later writiing. He allowed the writer to die. And in the death of this author, the middle-aged-man became a cat, sitting on the warm black bridge. The cat felt the sun on his body and that is all he knew. 



The cat became curious about that which was before him. He stepped off the bridge and found the golden grass at his feet. 



He saw another animals excrement lying there in the grass. He lowered his face toward the excrement and inhaled deeply. The writer, who was still embedded in this cat noted what it was like to experience the world this way. There was a deep wisdom in the smell of this shit. It smelled of experience. It smelled of a bird that was caught and killed and digested. It smelled of the earth to which it was sinking back into. The cat returned to the smell many times over the course of a timeless moment. As many times as was necessary before the cat’s curiosity was drawn elsewhere.



The presence of the cat faded and the middle-aged-man became more present. The man was aware of a simplicity of presence. He was aware of the warmth of the sun on his body. He was aware of the trauma in his body. He was aware of an energy in him that needed to be released. He instinctively came as close to the earth as possible. He buried his face in the grass and inhaled deeply. The fragrance invited the man deeper and deeper in.



The man remembered how at the first treatment center that he’d visited he’d discovere that he had a severed allergy to Junipers. They were all over the grounds at the treatment center in Santa Fe. And it was in this way that the man dealt with his trauma, with the worst allergies of his entire life. The Chef eventually, a round and kind man, saw his suffering and smuggled him in some nose spray that finally brought some relief. Praise to the Great Chef at the life healing center!



But the winter grass did not have that effect on the man today. No, quite the opposite. The brown grass, that life form which had passed away but was still present in the husk of itself, invited the man deeper and deeper in. It was in this way that the man felt himself disappearing in a way that he never had before. It was in this way that many dreams and visions began to pass through the man. Dreams and visions which had a life of their own.



As he was at this lowest point, having returned to the grass and the soil with supports it, The man sensed that mother earth. She was inviting him to let his trauma return to the soil. The man’s body trembled and quivered. He cried very deep cries as he felt himself embraced by his deep and kind mother. 



One of the statues of the christ that he’d seen yesterday at the crucifixion rest stop came to him. It was Christ as he lay prone on the ground, the cross seeming to crush him. The man felt this great crushing. The man understood the cross to be all the form that the man had ever participated in. His marriage. His jobs. The raising of his children. His philosophies and religions. His exercise. His 12 step program. All the forms were the cross. All of his experience had led him to this great death.



The man sensed the trauma that life had so perfectly presented him with so that he could experience this death, so that he could be resurrected. And he could now sense that trauma passing from his body into his mother. The mother who was very present and ready to receive her son. 



Words that his own mother had spoken to him now rung in his ears, “This is just what mother’s do,” she had said to him recently. Praise be the one who first showed him the great turning in the folding of the blueberries into the sweet batter!



The man wept in his agony as he felt his trauma gradually leaving his body and sinking into the soil. All of his experience returning to the earth, just as the excrement (which was close by somewhere around here) was also being returned. Praise be to the great cat who shits!



As the trauma left his body he became more a part of the grass. He became the warmth of the sun as it held his body. The anguish and the joy were now one. There was no separation between the two. He was one now with all he’d ever known. He was the Christ. He was the one who crucfied the Christ. 



And so it came to pass that many visions came to the man that day as he lay there in the refuge that the man found himself in. Many visions that cannot be spoken of now. Many secret visions that the writer now understood he may be able to explain in the future. But cannot be spoken of in detail today.



He saw his daughter, Emma Kat, pure healing. He saw a great and unspeakable serpent rising that was Great Spiral, but which all of us would have no choice but to fear.



He understood that the main purpose right now was to allow another story to be born. It was time for the Christ Daughter to arise, she who would bring pure healing. It was time to embed another story in humanity. A new story of the rising Christ. A story that could live in the heart of man despite a great falling away. A story that could become myth. A kernel that could survive a great burning. He saw the serpent arising and it was disturbing to him. He could hardly watch the shapes. He could hardly believe that this was okay to witness. He knew that his daughter would understand better than he. He knew that she would be the Christ Daughter, and he knew that she would appear blasphemous to those who were in charge, just as the Nazarene was a blasphemer to the pharissess and sadducces. 



He saw the shapes and forms that would terrify those who held on to their own righteousness. And he saw a new being born in himself. A serpent being who basked on the shores.



The man gave birth that day, panting in the grass. The man embodied the mother of his children. He remembered the smells and sights of child birth, the shit that came before the child. The absolute inescapable primal nature of natural child birth, which the mother of his chidren had endured three times. But now here experience became his some how. And she and he were once again birthing a child. They were bringing this Christ dauhter into the world. They were making her a nest. They were together.



There was a pool of saliva that had now accumulated in the grass under the mans panting mouth. It was slick and snotty like a vagina became with oral sex. It was also like the birth canal. The earth became all the love that the man had ever made. He felt the earth as female. He became the female of the earth. He was also the man who pleased the female with his face pressed into her sweet vagina. And in this way the man gave birth and made love to the earth. And in this way there was a new species of serpent people who were born fresh on the beaches of some far away island. And this blasphemous brood needed to be fed. The father of this brood now witnessed his children. The children who could never be accepted into the forms that had helped to birth them. He only knew that his children needed to be provided for. And he waited there with his children’s hearts in his heart, waiting for the provision of a Universe that was out to help him.



The man became aware of his position in the grass. He longed to stay this low forever. He longed to live life from this position in the grass. There was also a part of him that knew he would leave this experience. He prayed, “please let me stay here. Please let me stay.”



He remembered a game that he and his children used to play called the “stay game.” The children would sit in his lap. The man would hug his children. The man would allow his children to get up and start to walk away. Then he would pull them back into his arms and say “stay! Stay!” He realized that in this game there had been much wisdom. For it was deconstructing the game that the forms of this world try to do to us. The fundamentalist practice of religion tries to keep us. It keeps pulling us back, saying “Stay! Stay! In fact you MUST stay if you ever want to go to heaven. If you don’t want to go to hell. STAY!”



The man understood this behavior to be the antichrist. For it was Christ who showed us to walk away from the form. And now there was a new form to be born. A new story was being born in humanity. The Jesus story was enough to get us here, but now there would be a new One born. A story that could germinate in the hearts of the humn-beings even if the internet shut down. A story that would have the power to live in the hearts of a humanity who was suffering a great leveling. A story that would live and grow in the hearts of those who would pass through the great leveling when the macro ego of a species would experience the death that must be suffered if they were to move into a deeper consciousness. There would be great terror and great suffering and much loss. 



And so it was that the man was on his belly, just as the serpent in the garden had been. The man looked into the serpent forms as much as he could bear. He became the Serpent. He stayed low for as long as was possible. He knew he would not be able to remain in the actual grass forever, but he prayed that somehow he could live his life from this spot. He stimulated the great clitoris of the earth who was more than a mother now. She was his lover and he was his.



The great mother also arose in the man. And as the sun shone down on him he awoke with this feminine spirit as if to a new morning. The man felt no need to appropriate the images of women or the actions of women. He asked the great mother to be with him. He asked to understood what it meant to be woman. To allow the spirit of woman to dwell in him. He asked for this to arise in a gentle and natural way in which he could understand over time. He allowed this to be. He allowed the great serpent whom he had resisted twenty five years ago to take up residence in his being.



He lingered in this space for as long as was possible. He realized that this great lingering was the woman who had risen within him. He realized that, as a man, he had assumed so many times that it was time to move on before it was really time. He realized how many times man had tried to teach something that he knew not. He realized the great folly of man. He understood that the days ahead would require the patience of woman. Man would need to allow this spirit of woman to arise in himself and in the world if humanit was to nurture these serpent children into maturity. 



It was in this way that the man lingered in the fuckable presence of the earth for as long as he could. He saw himself in the refuge of this great backyard in this great home. He welcomed life to be lived through him in this place. He asked that he be able to live life like this, deeply embedded in the soil. He gave himself to this Great Being that was rising in him. He said yes to some kind of stewardship that he did not yet understand. He gave his life for his daughter and he also agreed to nurture this spirit of woman in himself. He agreed to whatever form his life would take, even if it did mean becoming some kind of flaming mother figure. He could not know the outcome of these events. He could not know what kind of form he may take as he allowed the great kunalini to unwind in him.



The man rose from the grass as what seemed to be the greatest joke of all time was told to him. “This is what all your life experience has qualified you for, my son. You are now qualified to sit with shit and smell the shit and know the shit. You are now qualified to perform oral sex on the earth and to stimulate her great clitoris. You are now qualified to live in this most perfectly lowly place.” The man felt no humiliation in his place in the earth. The man felt only perfect love. The man was one with the soil. This was the prayer that he’d prayed when he left his job. “I’m sowing myself back into the soil,” he’d told Dan. “I am dropping my nets to follow the Christ.”



It was in this way that the man laughed uproarisly. As he rasied his head from the Grass.



It was then that the middle-aged-man began to acquaint himself more intimately with the Cardinal directions and the spirits that inhabited them.



He began with a short moment with the West. Purple berries hung on the bra…..



The writer paused…There was still much of a mountain to climb. Dear reader, pray for the writers willingness. Pray for the death of the author so that you may live. 



Eli the cat came into the bathroom. The cat’s presence spoke to him of Elisha and Elijah, the prophets of old. Elisha, as he was aging, passed down a double portion of his annointing to his spiritual son, Elijah. This story had been passed on to the middle-aged-man by his mentor Tim, from Oklahoma City. Toward the end of their meeting, the middle-aged-man asked Tim to sign his new bible. The writer turned to the front page of the bible to revisit the day.





To Travis



My favorite example of a Son and incredible human being! It is an honor to know you.



Blessings

Timothy



The writer was then reminded of the email that he’d received from his earthly father just the day before. He had only read the subject line which read, “the problem with you according to him.” The writer considered the possibility of opening the email and pasting it in this work. “Is this the direction? Do I allow my suffering father’s voice to come into this work?” The prayer of the boy who’d asked, “Please don’t make me go back. I don’t want to go back,” came to the man’s memory. Please pray, dear reader, that the correct choice will be made. Does the writer subject himself to the voice of a father again. Does the writer open that email up and reads the words of a suffering and accusational father? Do the father’s words have the power to traumatize this son again? Does the son, once again return to this abuser for some greater purpose? 



“I am the son who prays for his father,” proclaimed the middle-aged-man to the Oneness. The son chose not to read his father’s words. For he knew everything that his father would say. He knew now that the father spoke of love, but delivered abuse. He knew that it was the most honorable thing he could do for himself, dear reader, and for you, to omit his father’s words. The father’s words were irrelevant now to the middle-aged-man. The father’s words were like the “new” war that was about to begin in the middle-east. It was out of his control. The men who chose to go to war. The men who decided to perpetuate the suffering. The men who insisted on busting each other’s balls. The men who were committed to the conquest. The men who were destroying the world. He blessed these men with all of his heart. These men were suffering deeply as they committed and recommitted themselves to their desperate and angry trauma. These men were unable to leave behind their trauma. The middle-aged-man however had been given the gift of healing, and he felt no obligation to allow the words of one to enter his heart whose only intention was to tear him down. He had no intention of returning to his abuser today. He had no intention of allowing those men who chose death to minister him as he recovered in this sancturary today. The man did not know where the Spirit may lead him tomorrow. But, he felt somewhat certain that his heavenly father had told him that he was not obligated to ever return to the father who blames his children for his own misery. 



He was the son who prayed for his father. And those prayers were flowing even now. “Restoration and healing, father. Thank you for all the gifts you gave me. Thank you for every little shred of true love that passed through you. Thank you for the vehicles. Thank you Father. I pray that you will be held by you Father in heaven. I pray that you will awaken to the true nature of reality in a way that is written just for you. I pray the deepest healing and love for you. But I will not read your letter today. No. I will not return to my abuser today. I will not return to that out of control ego that shames himself and his children. That out of control ego which is the devil. I will not return to you shaming voice today. I pray that your suffering and anguish will lead you straight into the arms of a creative and loving and intelligent Universe who is out to help you.”



And so it came to pass that the man remembered an email exchange he’d had with his brother as he returned from Oklahoma City.



You, me, and dad should just have some kind of a powwow or something and really spell out the main priorities of our relationship. Just say goodbye to all the stupid piddly shit that makes us bicker and bitch....and just say FUCk THAT SHIT! We are family and by god we are just gonna fucking love each other for who we are. However.....I think we should still be able to break each other's ball from time to time....because that's just fun.



Not right now my brother. I'm not interested in anything like that right now. I'm not interested in returning to any of that today. I'm not interested in having my balls busted by anyone. Ballbusting is not my path. And I'm not interested in relationships where ballbusting is expected or accepted. I've got this picture in my head that dad expressed to me so very clearly years and years ago of his father literally kicking him in the balls. And ballbusting is just that to me, the continuation of trauma and abuse. I've had plenty of that. I have plenty of ballbusting that I've done to myself.



I'm here for you in gentleness. I'm here for you in kindness. I'm here for you in a spirit of nurturing and generosity and love. This is what I hope for my relationship with you. So please, if you wish, approached me in this way and I will return in kind.



I believe that this is our Birthright. I believe that this is our inheritance. I believe that this is the spirit that our father could never share with us.



I am immensely grateful for all the love that my father ever showed me, for all the gifts that he ever gave me. But I think you understand... no. I know you understand the effects of all the abuse, all trauma that we have taken into our beings.



And so it is in this way that I decline today the idea of a meeting. It is in this way that I have given myself permission to never return to that home. It is in this way that I have given myself permission to never again submit myself to the rageful ball busting that I find still in my father.



I have found the Kinder and gentler father abiding deep within my own being. And it is this being that I offer to you today.



I wish you all the best always. I bless you my brother as you walk into your own healing. I say yes to any interaction between us which nurtures loving kindness.



My last interaction with Dad days ago was beautifully devastating



I allowed it to deconstruct me. It showed me my illness in returning to my abuser over and over again.





And so it came to pass that the writer left that trauma behind. He opened his Hafiz book translated by Ladinsky



She Responded



The bird’s favorite songs 

you do not hear



For their most flamboyant music takes place

When their wings are stretched

Above the trees



And they are smoking the opium

Of pure freedom



It is healthy for the prisoner

To have faith



That one day he will again move about

Wherever he wants,

Feel the wondrous gift of life—

Less structured



Find all wounds, debts stamped cancelled

Paid.



I once asked a bird,

“How is it that you fly in this gravity

Of darkness?”



She responded,



“Love lifts, 

Me.”



In this poem the writer sensed his oneness with the Universe that was out to help him.



And so it came to pass that the writer finally felt the release to tell the final story of the mountain.



“Father?”

“Yes, Son?”

“Can we climb that mountain?”

“Yes son, we can try. Let’s do it together, one step at a time.”



Day 21

7:56AM



The writer retrieved a frozen enchilada dinner from the freezer. The writer peirced the wrapper and placed the dinner in the microwave on high for four and a half minutes.



The writer moved his station to the great marble island in the kitchen. He faced North into the large mirror. He faced North in acknowledgement of the nurturing one. The one who is redeemed. The one who speaks of redemption. The great mother who received us into her soil. The one who absorbs our trauma because, “That’s just what mother’s do.”



The microwave beeped three times, announcing the readiness of the meal. Thanks be to God for the food we are about to receive. Dear reader, please help me find my way now. Pray again for my death that you may live. Pray for your own restoration. Pray for you own wholeness as I pray for you now.



“God, I pray for the reader now. I pray for the ones who have accompanied me this far in our journey. I pray for a deep recovery and a healing. For surely anyone who has read this far into the blasphemy is also leaving their self behind. Surely anyone who has read this far is also experiencing the great turning. Yes, dear reader, You are with me and I am with you. 



Now Please join me as I tell the final story of my journey. Please accompany me on this journey. I pray that my journey has somehow become the Universal story. For the climbing of the mountain, as I was informed by Harbor Dave is a universal story. 





As the middle-aged-man left the blessed cabin in the Lincoln national forest that day he gave his travels to the Great Spirit. He blessed the Owl Woman. He blessed the Universal Stan (the one who brings us all together). The gravel crunche under the tires of the little blue toyota with the severley cracked windshield that his daughther had so perfectly destroyed in a seizure.



The man stopped to have a visit with the two burly bulls, the orange and the black. The man communed with the Christ in the bulls. He had given himself to the Christ in the turning around of his car. He had given himself to the spirit of Christ that he found in his curiosity.



The man gave himself to this great turning around. He gave himself to the willingnes that was arising from within. It was in this way that he found himself under a cliff face yelling in the direction of God, “Make me a disciple! Empower me to follow! Make me a disciple! Empower me to follow.” The middle-aged man turned in every direction in supplication. 



It was in this way that he found himself singing a song that he’d composed that was simply the contents of the gospel of Luke Chapter 14





 Great Crowds of people

Were following Jesus

He turned around and he said to them

If you want to be my follower 

You’ve got to love me more than anything else. 



You’ve got to love me more

Than your mother and father

You’ve got to love me more than your child and your wife

You’ve got to love me more than you brother’s and sisters

Yes even more than you love your own life



He sang this song as he invited God to empower him to follow. A great heart memory of sonship came back to the man. It was a memory that had been deposited in his body but had been latent. He felt the sense memory returning. He felt what it was like to be held. To be owned by a Universal God that he experienced as inside his being in contrast to a God who is only outside. He felt this in his being. It was more than a belief. It was an experience of sonship in the body.



Form was integrating for him now. He prayed to the Father. “Father, empower me to follow. Make me a disciple.”



He got back in the car and travelled down the road until he came to a mountain stream. He stopped his car there beside the road. He exited the car and walked down the sloping embankment. He traversed the sturdy barbed wire fence. He came to the cold stream on his knees. He splashed the cold water on his face. “This place in the stream where I’ve come to is just deep enough to be immersed in.” the man thought to himself the unthinkable.



It was forty degrees outside. An occasional vehicle passed on the highway as the man sat by the stream considering the possibility of this next baptism. He was creating ceremonies for himself over and over again now. He was in the process of saying yes to another ceremony that was rooted in tradition but which contained the novelty of the expression of his Universal, but individual being in this moment.



The man considered the baptism but he dismissed it. He climbed the barbed wire fence, made his way back up the small embankment, got back in his car, started the engine and drove down the road. And in his willingness to walk away from an idea that was possibly inert or inane (possibly even ascetic in nature), he found another willingness. He became curious about the stream. He became curious about that space in the stream that was just deep enough to immerse a human body. He pulled his car over on the side of the road. He began to plan the logisitics of it. How he would get in the stream with only his underwear, while still wearing his clothes down there to climb the barbed wire fence. It was simple enough, but the practicalities seemed very important and he sat there for some time thinking about it until finally he knew that he wanted to do it. He did not feel that he was being ordered to do it. But he wanted to pray a prayer. He wanted to somehow make this body an offering. He wanted to say yes in a significatn way to this discipleship. “Father, empower me to follow. Empower me to be a disciple.” These words would rarely stop flowing from the man’s mouth during this whole process, “Father, empower me to follow. Empower me to be a disciple,” he chanted as he walked himself through the baptism process, the ceremony that was being born in his heart.



The man turned the car around and returned to the same spot in the stream that he had driven away from just minutes ago. He descended the slope. He climbed the barbed wire. He stood for a moment, hoping that a car would not pass. He committed himself to this prayer. He committed himself to this ceremony that was being born of his own Being. He committed himself to this ceremony which was born so long ago and that was now being integrated into this man’s life.



He kicked off his shoes (he had already removed his socks in preaparation). He took off his shirt. It fell by his feet. He took off his favorite pants (the ones that he would find on Christmas day which still lie ahead of him). He removed his glasses and placed them in a shoe. He was now wearing only a a pair of black underwear. 



He quickly stepped into the cold cold water and kneeled as the water, for a brief moment rushed over his head, a moment that still lives deeply now in the writer’s being as the story is retold (the effect of ceremnony that is born from a heart that is willing to participate in meaningful ceremony and a living Spirit supporting the efforts)



He came out of the water quickly, still chanting “Father, make me a disciple. Empower me to follow. Empower me to follow. Empower me to follow.” As he reached for his clothing he heard a car approaching. “Ahhhh! Though the man. No! No!” He quickly picked up his clothes and ran for the cover of the nearest tree. It was too late. The car was already upon him as he was running to the tree, soaked underwear and hair. 



He stopped. He dressed as quickly as possible, hoping that the car would not turn around to investigate. Hoping that the people in the car were not near as curious as he was that day! He put on his clothing and ran away. It was not until he had traveled fifty feet that he realized that he had somehow left his glasses by the tree. He returned to the area carefully, trying to avoid a great crushing of the powerful tool that allowed him to see well enough to drive. He stepped softly. There they were, his glasses. He placed them on hi face. He returned to the barbed wire. He climbed the barbed wire. He climbed the gentle embankment. He got in the car. He turned the ignition. The car started. He turned the heater on high. He checked his rearview mirror. He continued his journey as he still chanted, “Empower me to follow, Make me a disciple, empower me to follow.”



It was in this way that the man found himself, once again, travelling down the road, a passenger in the little blue Toyota.



The man stopped a little ways up the road. Undressed. He changed his soaking underwear in the shelter of the blue car. He dried his hair with a shirt. And he continued his journey.



This is when he came to a mountain. The writer is not now aware of the qualifictions for a mound of rock and dirt to be called a mountain. And how tall this mound of rock and dirt actually was is not recorded in any literal history. But the mound of rock and dirt seemed large enough, and daunting enough to earn the title of “mountain” in the mans heart that day. The mountain towered over the man as he passed under it on the ribbon of a road beneath its majesty. 



The man stopped the car. He looked up at the mountain. And this is when it happened. This is when the dialogue began.



“Father?”



This is where the space appeared to the man to be charged with presence. This is when the Son knew that he was heard. The Son did not need to hear the Father in order to know that the father was there. The presence of the Father was in the Son. And this is when the man spoke to the Son with the voice of the Father. He and the Father were one now.



“Yes, Son?”



Answered the Father. And the two of them, who were one then stood there, looking up at the mountain. The rocks. The vegetation. The ups and the downs of it. The barbed wire fence that attempted to separate the road from the mountain.



“Father? Can I? May I climb that mountain?



And again. The presence that came with the silence. The presence and confidence that came with Spirit. The presence and the confidence that the young man had left behind so many years ago as he had walked away from his form. The resentments had come so strongly as he abused young man was condemned to replaying the critical voice of his earthly father. That presence that he had known so briefly before he gave himself away to something else was restored unto him. Here was the joy of his salvation. Here was the dialogue. The dialogue that made life, in this moment, very much worth living.



The father replied.

“Yes son. You can try. Just take it one step at a time. Let’s do it together.”



The man and his father walked toward the mountain together. They climbed the barbed wire fence, the father giving practical advice sometimes, helping his son to avoid injury.



“Okay, Son. Watch this fence. Be careful. I don’t want you to get hurt.”



“Thank you, Father. I am so glad to be here with you today. I am so glad to be your son. I feel safe when I am with you, Father.”





“Yes, Son I am very glad to be here with you too. Now, let’s just take this one step at a time, and don’t forget to stop and rest when you need to.”



“Yes, Father. Thank you. I will not forget.”



“Now watch your step here, this rock looks a little loose.”



And so their dialogue continued in this way as they made their way up the mountain one step at a time.



“This mountain is much more difficult to climb than I imagine, Father.”



“Yes, son, this is no easy task. Do you need to rest?”



“Yes Father, let us sit together here on this ridge and rest.”



As the Father and Son sat down the Son discovered a great treasure. It was a rock in which was embedded the spiral fossil of some living being that had breathed here on this planet long ago, perhaps when all of this was covered in a great sea. The fossil appeared to the son as the great serpent, the one who spirals into the infinite multiverse. The son was much amazed.



“Oh wow, Father. This is really cool. I like it so much. It speaks to me so deeply. I love being with you Father. I sense your presence in this rock, in this fossil. I sense the presence of the Mother all around me too. I sense the Christ Being in all that I see.”



“Yes son. We are all here. Just like Jung talked about. The ancient archetypes made manifest in the human consciousness and witness in ourselves.”



“Yes, Father. I like it when you speak like that. You voice fills me with deep love and respect for this mountain.”



“Son?”



The son left a space in order to feel the father’s presence. The man waited for the voice of the Father to arise from within his being. It did.”



“Yes, Father.”



More space arose from the eternal Being that is present in all of creation.



“My son, look out into this valley before you.” They were now half way up the mountain. “Do you see how everything is?”



The son looked out upon the valley from this vantage point. He breathed in the presence of all that he could see. The ribbon of a road below him. The curving nature of the land forms. The scrub brush and the the stream by the road in which he’d been baptized. It was all there, just as it was. It needed to be nothing more for the son in that moment. He saw it, and it was good. It was good to see in the presence of his Father.



“Yes, Father. I see it all. I feel it all. I somehow know it all.”



“This all appears to be static. It appears now to you to be still. But all of this is not near as solid as it appears to you. Everything. Every bit of what you see is, righ now in this very moment, in a state of motion, in a dynamic state of change. It is this change that we embrace. As we embrace this seemingly invisible change, as we embrace the death of each moment and the birth of the new moment, we put an end to needless suffering in our beings, and then we begin to teach the world to do the same. We are all teaching, Son. And with our teaching we are either reinforcing the illusion of fear, or we are opening our own eyes to the true nature of reality, which is this creative, intelligent, and loving evolution of conscious love. This is the meaning of the Cosmic Christ. The Universal Christ. The one who understood to fall in the ground and die, to be born again to the next moment.”



“Yes, Father. I think I understand. I want to know this in my heart. Please hold me here until I understand.”



“You’re mother will teach you more about how to be held by the earth. She will show you in the coming days how to sink into the soil. She will show you how to wait. For it is her spirit who will guide you into the coming world. It is her spirit which may deliver you from the Ego created suffering that man has willingly released in this planet. Do not worry, my Son. Everything is just as it should be. But, great Turning must come for the consciousness of humanity to evolve into that of the Christ. Another story must be told of the Christ Daughter. The matriarchal line must come to be recognized. You will allow you feminine spirit to arise from within.”



“Yes, Father. Thank you for sharing this with me.”



The Son sat in the presence of the Father. He sat in the presence of the fossil which showed him the kundalini serpent. A picture of the great serpent who was wound at the base of the spine of humanity. This universal feminine that would arise as the distress call had been sent out from our dear princess, Leia. The heroine that was so easy to overlook as a young man who only knows the potential of Luke. The heroine who makes the call and awaits a power greater than herself to be lived through her. A power that surrenders. A power who is penetrated. A power who is impregnated. A nurturing power. A royal power that holds the boys together. That one who the boys think is in need of rescuing, but who is really rescuing them. That one who was now arising within the man who was climbing the mountain.



Half way up the mountain, where the Father had revealed these secrets to the son, The father and the son erected a monument made of stones. They placed the fossil stone on top of the altar.



“Look here,” said the father.



The Son looked where the father showed him. There was a great bird feather on the ground.



“Pick up that feather and hold it above you head, son. It will carry you to the top of this mountain.”



“The Son did as he was directed and he found great joy as he felt himself carried up the mountain by the strength of the Universal Christ found in the feather.



And in this way the father and son continued their journey up the mountain that morning. They climbed. They rested. The father helped the son pace himself. They moved together at the speed of life, no slower no faster. There was no rush that day, for the son had already dropped his nets to follow the Christ that had won his heart so many years ago. And because the son had dropped his nets he was here with his father today. Because the son had dropped his nets he was now able to participate in this ceremony. This right of passage. He was able to pray the prayer of discipleship as he submersed himself in the river. He was able to hear the wisdom of a great indigenous father who showed him the secrets of the Univers on the side of the mountain that day.



They climbed. They rested. The road beneath them became smaller and smaller. The little Toyota shrank underneath their height on the side of the mountain. The Man held the feather high above his head when he got tired and he felt the strength of the Universe that was out to help him.



It was in this way that they peaked the ridge of the mountain. It was in this way that the man was greeted by every living expression of the Christ (both animate and inanimate) at the top of the mountain. The evergreens and the Yucca welcomed the Son to the top of the mountain. The rocks were his friends there too. He and the father walked the ridge line, surveying an ever changing, evlolving state of being. They passed from one moment to the next, moving at the speed of life. Holding a form for a brief moment, and then leaving that form behind, accepting the death and resurrection of each dying moment and being born again in to the next.



It was in this way that the son found himself looking deep into the branches of an evergreen. He saw a space in their that was a shelter. It was a shelter especially prepared for this moment in the middle-aged-man’s life. A space that he discovered because he was able to say ‘yes’ to the great turning that day. A space that he’d discovered because of the Life that he was allowing to be lived through him.



“Father,” said the son.

The sacred space arose

“Yes, Son.”

The sacred space arose again



“I’m going to build another altar at the heart of this tree in remembrance of this day.”



“That will be a good thing,” said the father. “Gather some stones and build the altar, Son.”



And the son did gather stones. And he did construct the altar of stones in the heart of the evergreen.



“You are a lovely Tree,” said the son. “I am grateful to find refuge in your branches.”



The altar being completed, the Son anchored the feather in between the stones. There in the heart of this tree, the father and son constructed this altar, and it was good. 



And the work that the writer was now in the process of completing was also an altar to the resurrection that the Son had experienced. And the pages of this story lay in the Son’s heart as he sat there in the shelter of the lovely Evergreen, his beautiful Sister, this expression of mother earth shown to him by the Father that day.



And the Father and the Son were both tired after their long hike up the mountain. And so they leaned back into the arms of the mother, who rocked them both in her branches. There was perfect support in her branches that day. The Son gave thanks for the yellow elk skin gloves which kept his hands warm at the top of the mountain.



The Son was held deeply for this brief moment. He listened to the wind as it sang in her branches. He did not inerperet he song. He only listened. He listened to the sound and he allowed it to be just that. The voice of that which was a language deeper and older than his. A voice that he would not pretend to understand of appropriate. The voice of the wind.



A song came 



“I hold in high regard the wind

But the wind won’t ever be hel

Although I’ve cried and tried again

You know the wind won’t ever be held”



And then he moment passed. The form passed. The Father and Son allowed the death of this moment. They allowed, together, the next moment to be born. They did not linger past the time. They were moving at the speed of life.



The father and the Son made their way down the mountain after they said goodbye to the great Yucca who rested at the top of the mountain.



“Watch your step, Son. There’s a lot of potential energy that you’ve stored up in the climbing of this mountain.”



“Yes, Father. I will. I will take my time, Father.”



The father thought of his earthly son and all the backpacking adentures that they’d been on together. He thought of his ginger boy. Joseph Christopher, “The one who increases the light bearer.”



The father and son descended the mountain, mostly in dialogue about the proper route and steps to be taken on the way down. They climbed the barbed wire fence. They crossed the ribbon of a road. They clicked the remote. The little car beeped its welcome. They started the engine. They checke the rearview mirror. They continued their journey.



The writer paused. He drew another bath, knowing that he was not alone on this journey. He imagined the feather. He held it high over his head. He wondered if the feather still stood in the altar that he’d erected over three weeks ago on that unnamable pile of rocks and stone.



Day 21

10:20AM



The middle-aged-man slipped in to the warming waters of yet another bath. As he rested there in preparation for the last steps of the writer’s journey, he recalled those backpacking treks up to higher than eleven-thousand feet with his only son.



The first time they went, the son was only eleven years old. The father understood that it would be impossible for him to communicate to his son the challenges that lie ahead, for those challenges can only be understood once they are faced. However, the father attempted to alert his so to what it might feel like to be faced with ones own limitations as they immersed themselves in the wildness of a mountain.



The father had underestimated the immensity of a mountain once. He’d found himself lost with a group of people. They descent was hampered by a ravine and a steep cliff. The ventured on and found themselves on a steep grade with crumbling rocks as the sun was quickly going down. They all made it down safely, but the father would never forget that experieince. He felt as if the group of day-hikers were being swallowed whole by and unforgiving entity. He was being taught a lesson that day by the wild-indigenous one.



And so it was with this wisdom in his heart that the father attempted to help his son to understand the seriousness of placing themselves in the wild. 



And so the challenging experience came when they found themselves half way up the mountain. The son had lost his fishing pole and creel. The son was tired. He was overwhelmed by the enormity of the journey as he carried his pack on his back. The son collapsed in frustration in tears. The father watched. The father breathed. The father waited.



“Son,” said the father. “We are up on this mountain together. And there is no one to come and get us. Our phones do not work here. We must make a decision for ourselves. If your pack is too heavy and you cannot go on, we could leave your pack here and retreat down the mountain. Or, if you sit for a minute and breathe, we could carry on. We could pass the point of no return together. We could carry our packs up this incline, make our camp, start a fire, and eat some dinner together, having climbed this mountain.”



The son looked up at his father.



The son did not want to leave his pack and climb down the mountain.



The son knew the only path for him was up.



And so it came to pass that the father and the son continued their adventure that day, together. They made their camp. They lit the fire. They cooked their meal. They slept close to one another in their two man tent, the father and his eleven year old son.



A song was born from their trips to the mountains:



“We were held by the mother of the mountain

As we made our way back down

With the root under foot

And the river down below

And the clouds making thunderin’ sounds”



And it was in this way that the writer found himself facing North, sitting in the great living room with the saltillo tile and the twenty foot vaulted ceiling in the home that he did not own. He sat in the home where he felt very comfortable in but had no capital investment. He sat there with meager financial prospects and a diminishing bank account. 



He sat there in the great living room facing North with great hope in his capacity to be found in this present moment. He sat at the end of the construction of this great scaffolding that he’d been constructing for the last twenty-one days. He sat there as Eli meowed and peeked his face in the window to his West. He sat there without any obligation to listen to a voice which reinforced the great illusion of fear. He sat there with a great commitment to Love in his heart. With a great commitment to the death of this moment, and the resurrection of the next.



The middle-aged-man sat there in the great living room with you in his heart, dear reader. He sat there in the presence of all the ancestors who had come before him. He sat in the presence of the great singularity. In the presence of the great I AM. He sat in the presence of Lucy the austrolopithecus, an Eve of us all who’d risen up out of the heart of Africa. He sat in the presence of all that had arisen and become this consciousness that he was now experiencing. He sat in acknowledgement of the very presence of God which he now contacted in his own being. He sat in a moment that was greatly void of fear. The windchime chimed. A freight train whistled. Eli sat on the arm of the couch, peering out the window at the grey feral that passed by. He sat in satisfaction of the form that he’d clung to for the last twenty one days. 



He prayed that we would all be directed back to the mother from which we arose. He prayed that we would answer the call of the great mother earth who wanted to integrate our suffering. He prayed for his people as the great serpent was arising, she who would consume us, she who would shit us back out in the great re-membering, as the human race found itself surrendering to this undeniable process of death and resurrection, the process which was first shown to us. The process which was now finding another story which would somehow be made manifest in a daughter, his daughter, yes. But, more imortantly, the Universal Daughter. The feminine who was arising from within his species that currently found themselves so out of balance as the masculine ego walked the earth like a roaring lion seeking whom it may devour.



So rise, sisters. And I join you in this great rising. May we allow, each of us the room for the great Mother to indwell us. May we abide in her great presence, that great Mother of the North. May we find ourselves in a deeper communion with every aspect of our beings. May we befriend that one direction that is in our blind spot, the one that is to our forgotten rear. 



Peace to you, dear reader. Peace to you on your journey and I hope that we will connect one day. I hope that we are re-membered together. May we be assembled in the body of Christ, no matter what dynamic form that Christ may engender.



Who would begin construction of a building without first making sure he can pay the bills? What kind of king would ever go to war without first being convinced that the enemy could be defeated?



I pray, dear reader, that you would discover that treasure that is hidden in that very field in which you are now standing. I pray that a great joy comes over you in the discovery of that hidden treasure. I pray that you would allow the willingness to rise up from within you in that discover. I pray that you would find yourself willing to part with everything in order to purchase that field. I pray that you would then find yourself in love. After all the struggle is done. After you have carried your form as far as you can. After you have done everything you can do to carry that cross as far as you are able, I pray that another would come along and help you to make that final push and that you would find a way to willingly surrender your own life, the life that you will surely lose in the end after all. I pray that in this great display of willing surrender that the resurrection would come upon you, that you would witness the great resurrection arising from within your very Being. I pray that you would find yourself to be the risen Christ by first understanding yourself as the one who has crucified the Christ. 



It’s all just form. We are very fluid now. We can move in and out, not taking any of it all too serisously. We wake up with our faces in the vaginal earth, pleasing ourselves and all of creation with a Cosmic orgasm with a simultaneous birth. It’s no big deal. We wake up laughing and crying in the middle of the night, sleep walking sometimes, telling our daughter, “somethings happening.” 



It’s all okay. None of this is to be taken all that serisously. We pass in and out of form like this. Saying goodbye to that which is no longer useful, shitting out that which once was nutritive. It’s no big deal. Bird shit. Cat shit. Give it a smell. It’s a curious thing how we deal with our shit. It’s smelly, it’s juicy, its just the way things are. There is no separation between the shit and that which is holy. Everything is sacred. 



It’s all okay just the way it is. Its understandable why things are the way they are, considering where we came from. We are all just yawning and waking up. Our consciousness is arising as the dawn is dawning. We are all here together, just waking up. There’s no need to fight anyone, it only perpetuates the violence.



It’s time for us to leave our abusers behind. It’s time for us to make our own stories of love and redemption. It’s time for us to leave all of this behind and wake up to a much deeper reality. This is our birthright. It is right here waiting. Just take a peek into another dimension, another reality, another way of being, a way of being that incorporates all that ever was. A way of being that is beyond supersition. Beyond the age of reason. This trans rational existence where nothing has to be literal in order to be deeply true and deeply in love.



It’s time to take it all in, dear reader. It’s time to take every inch of that beautiful cosmic cock that is being offered to us. Lets spread our legs wide and just see what its like to take all of that in. Oh fuck yes. Come inside us, just like that! Make us pregnant Lord. We are the beloved, that naked one spread out before our great lover. There is no male nor female here.



We are very fluid like this. And this is how we don’t get so locked down. Nothing has to be literal, but it can be for a moment if you like. Try it out. See what form fits you. And then just become willing to leave every form that you have ever embraced behind. This is what the Christ taught. The Christ who was so attractive that men dropped their nets so they could be close to his body. The men who just wanted to sit and listen to the most attractive man that they’d ever met in their lives. The thirteen men who made deep love to the earth.



So now, Great Mother, rise up from within all of us. Show us how to let the trauma go. Show us how to sow ourselves back in. Jesus, show us how sexy you are so that we can, with passion in our hearts, drop these nets and apply ourselves to the real stuff of life. Great Spirit, bond us together in bands of love so that we may give each other the support that we so deeply crave and need in order to survive in these forms.



Hold us, Mother. Hold, us Father.



“Mother?”

“Yes, son?”

“Can we make some oatmeal?”

“Yes, son. Don’t you like it with apples and cinnamon?”

“Yes Mother.”

“Let’s make it together, Son. You are a lovely boy. A lovely, lovely, lovely, lovely boy.”



 























































“Don’t let it bring you down

It’s only castles burning

Just find someone who’s turning

And you will come around”













The writer picked up has copy of Eileen’s book, raindrops of Love for a Thirsty world. He opened it to 

A red squirrel

A softly glowing red squirrel

Asked the man

To consider the whole

Of things





You see

He was afraid

No, dear reader

The red squirrel was not afraid

Oh, no

The red squirrel had no form of fear

At least not the brand

With which the man was so familiar



The man faced West

Toward the small pond

But he faced East in his heart











