Day 19

6:48



The man awoke to an amber alert at some point in the middle of the night, an alarm sounding from his phone which, he presumed, announced the kidnapping of another child. The trauma announcing itself through the enhanced neural network which humans had constructed around their own consciousness.



He fell back asleep and when he awoke again he had a very specific vision of a worksheet, a blank worksheet with questions. Like you might find in a workbook, some kind of healing workbook. The questions were about music. There were large blank space. “What kind of healing actiities did you do with music today? What kind of songs? What other activities di you do that were self-care activifies?



And then the man got a picture in his head of Nash, the young man who’d showed him such care yesterday. And as he recalled his interaction with Nash he felt as if it was himself as a young man giving him the care that he could never give himself as a twelve year old boy. (the man was crying as he was making the recording)



The man also considered a question that his mother asked him last night that he was unable to answer immediately. “What do you need?” she asked



The question was paralyzing in a sense, or maybe the man just did not want to answer it too quickly, for he knew what a deep question this was and how misled one might be in the answering of this deep question. Or maybe the middle -aged-man knew what he needed but he was afraid to ask for it. And that morning as he lay in bed he wondered what kind of help might be available to him. What he really wanted was to go to a shaman and do a journey with ahuyasca or to visit Bruce in Vancouver Canada where he could be held somehow in conjunction with the medicine. 



Yes, that’s what he really wanted was to go visit Bruce. The stories that he read in Bruce’s book dismantled resounded with him in a deep way. He needed to be held. To be helped. But how would this happen? How could he ask for something like this from his mother after she’d already given him so much?



The man was reminded that he still had approximately 12 hundred dollars in his bank account. He was not without without the ability to help himself. Option number three from the list he’d begun yesterday concerning his finances became, “spend everything to get to Vancouver and have some kind of deeper psychedelic healing experience with a trained professional.”



He composed a letter to Bruce as he lay under his covers:













Bruce,



I need to resume where we left off. I'm in need of help from someone who can walk me through. I have 1200 dollars left in my bank account. I have walked away from all the trappings of my life. Our creative and healing universe is out to help me; this is what my journeys have shown me.



I need to be held. My twelve year old boy is right here. He is scared of his father and he needs to be held somehow. The people here in the bible belt love him very much, but he does not believe that they know how to hold him, despite their good intentions.



He is looking for a place that he can be safe. I (this generative and nurturing adult) am looking for a place for us (the twelve year old boy and all the others here too) to encounter healing. This is the healing that I gave all that I had for well over twenty five years ago, the treasure hidden in the field for which I sold everything so that I could buy that field.



The 12 year old is here and others too. There's a nurturing mother and a father in me. There's a tree goddess. There's a writer. There seems to be many fragmented parts of my being. Some are scared and looking for a place to hide. Others are of a deeper and more helpful nature.



When I was a boy, my father was terrified by the fluidity and sensitivity of my feminine nature. He showed me how to crush that feminine nature in the same way that he had been taught by his father. She is trying to come up again. I am making peace with her.



I've been writing my own book, documenting in real time the healing journey that I've been on in the last 19 days, reflecting on the days prior, and delving into some of the trauma that brought me here in the first place. I've been reading your book dismantled along the way. 



My mother asked me last night, what do you need? I was unable to answer. This morning I find myself pouring myself out to you. 



I know you have a livelihood. I don't want to sound overly anxious or desperate. But this is just a call going out. This email is a prayer. Because I don't know how to get myself to you right now without it being a final move. Do you know American football? Like a hail Mary pass. You just throw it up into the end zone and hope that the right guy catches it. Is that where I am right now?



Anyway. This communication is a prayer.



James Taylor wrote a lullaby for himself and published it. He showed me how to sing sweetly and softly to the world.



Fred Rogers showed little boys (this little boy) who were being abused that it was okay to be a man.



Twenty five years ago, falling in love with the Jesus of the bible allowed me to have a passionate love affair with a man, another man with that same nurturing "feminine" spirit.



Your book empowered me to eat some mushrooms and see that the world is not near as solid as I thought I needed it to be. I have seen that I am a lot more fluid than I have been able to allow myself to be. 



I'm trying to become water, Bruce. I'm allowing myself to flow. 



It's like your poem...



There is also the heaven 

of facing the truth 

and declaring your outrage 

as you push back your chair 

from the table 

and just leave 

like a sage. 



While you're at it 

leave the Friendship 

the job 

the marriage 

The Party 

The Sermon 

the deal 

the family 

the Covenant of nice 

before it's too late 

Love it or leave it 



what I am proposing 

it's more radical than you think 

it will leave your life in shambles 

It is death to your so-called life 

love everything you do.



My life is in shambles. I'm in that place where G_d can work. I've no righteousness of my own left. I broke every promise I ever made. I left the wife. I disappointed the kids. I walked away from my job because I could no longer hold the form in a way that was not abusive to Self.



The medicine has connected me, once again, with the intensity of life that I left behind so many many years ago. I was unable to allow that which was unacceptable to arise from within.



Today I am saying "yes" to that which has been unacceptable. I am giving my Self permission (or rather I am agreeing with its Presence) to arise from within me. It's this feminine nature, Bruce. It's this fluidity that the my world told me was "fag"and "gay" and "buttfucker" and whatever else was screamed at me in shameful tones. It is that which I was told was terrible and unacceptable.

 It is that which my Father was scared of in himself and therefore felt compelled to threaten in his own child. It is that which cannot be labelled or named so easily. It is that which I do not feel that merely fucking a man will necessarily satisfy within me. It is the fluidity that is right there in the new testament where it says that in Christ there is neither male nor female. I'm not a bible scholar Bruce, this just showed itself to me.



So, from a shallower and more fearful perspective, this is a hail Mary pass (I'm not a football player). But, seen from a deeper view (the view of this generative and nurturing adult), this email is just a natural next step in the life of a poet who is trying to connect with the poem. Saying "yes" to the form and structure of all this. Reaching out to those "other" voices which are resounding with her. 



Can you continue to help me to allow this to arise? 



Practically speaking, I know, there are two online meetings that we need to do before I could come see you. So practically speaking I guess that's where I'm at. I am willing to use the very last of my resources to come and see you in some effort to say "yes" to a healing that is somehow inevitable. This is what I am saying "yes" to in this email. I am saying "yes" To the continuation of this healing process.



Flow Watters

Is that name too confusing to walk into the world with?



Poetically speaking

Tree Goddess



The middle-aged man picked up his guitar in its case from where it sat by the front door. He seated himself on the great black and white and grey shag carpet that lined the floor of the living are that joined with his mother’s kitchen. He sat cross legged by the gently hissing gas fireplace and the blue and orange flames which flickered inside. He, once again started his anthem, the same songs that the angels had so willingly sung with him in his dream last Saturday morning. The same song he’d sung on Christmas morning, the liferaft of form to which he clung as he thought he would surely lose his mind and have to take his own life.



“I am humbled. I am broke,” The man sang

I gave myself away by mirrors and by smoke

Gospel man with feet of clay

I gave myself away

I gave myself away…



Mountains move beneath my hands

The earth and sky obey my every command

Breathing underneath the waves

I give myself a way

I give myself away



Rise up. Rise up again

Deeper power, rising from within



God is hot and God is cold

I felt his angels give me meek and give me bold

Naked is the way I came

And so I give myself away

That’s how I give myself away



“Maybe this is why so much happens in the shower,” pondered the writer, “The nakedness of it all. We arrive in this world with nothing--completely dependent on the love and care of those around us to give us what we need. We make that first journey toward the Universal Nipple, that source from which we gather our sustenance. We are dependent on the mother to allow us to suckle. We are defenseless. We are vulnerable. We are fragile. And then we grow up and we live under the illusion that we have somehow escaped this reality, but at any moment Life may take us in a different direction. Maybe Life does not value our life in the same way we do. Is this not what the Christ showed us as he carried the cross up the hill, the same cross that he would be nailed to? Is this not the origin of the question, ‘Why do bad things happen to good people?’ Why did this bad thing happen to the One who gave life, love, and healing to all those around him? Why would God allow this Son to suffer like this? Was it because G_d does not value our lives in the same way that we do. Maybe we are just taking this all too seriously. Is that what Jesus was doing? Was he just not taking all of this too seriously. Was the Christ just not taking himself too seriously? Is that how we live a fuller life? By realizing that none of this is what we think it is? By realizing that there’s not really a problem here? 



“Where does on go to live this kind of life?” wondered the disciple. “Where is my band of brothers who are making love to this world? How do I find myself supported in this process as I phase in and out of these attempts to save my own life? Where is the Christ going? How can I follow her?”



The man was in this process. Maybe he’d already passed the point of no return. He did not know. How does one know when she has passed the point of no return? It’s not by trying to return, now is it? That’s not how we discover that we’ve passed the point of no return. We know that we have passed the point of no return when our destination is all that is in our sight, when the only path is the path that is right below our feet. We take one step after another in our exhaustion, knowing that this is not the stopping place simply because there in not enough room on the trail to pitch a tent, not to mention that there is no water available at this particular point in the journey. Camp must be made where water is available. These are the lessons that the mountain had taught the middle-aged-man.





