Day 11

3:04AM



The writer awoke with a start just minutes ago. He awoke from a dream that he did not know now. The writer paused now, closing his eyes and waiting for the power of the dream to aprehend him. “The writer paused now,” The writer repeated to himself, for it was in this sentence, “The writer paused now,” that he detected the Great Turning, or the Great Folding Over which he had first experienced in the blueberry batter, and which he had more recently became familiar with when he had consumed the large dosage of the medicine on Christmas day. And this is the great turning to which he had awoke with a start when he heard the bathroom door close just a few minutes ago now. “There it was again,” thought the author, “The place where the past meets the present…or…where the past becomes the present?” 



The writer paused now.



A statement in the past tense which contained the present.



This reminded him of the Course In Miracles lesson that he’d read and practiced last night just before he went to sleep. “Let’s see, what was the lesson?” wrote the writer. He bent over, reached down into the space between the couch and the coffee table to retrieve the thick blue book.



Lesson 9: “I see nothing as it is now.”

Lesson 8: “My mind is preoccupied with past thoughts.”

Lesson 7: “I see only the past.”



The writer was reminded that by the time the light from the lamp on the endstand reflected off the objects around him, travelled to his eyes, and was then processed and interpreted by his nervous system, there was a certain fraction of a second that had passed, so what it was that he thought he was seeing was actually the past. The writer did not remember where this thought had come from, but it had been taught to him one time. The lesson had been taught to him one time in the past. The lesson was taught in the past, that place in which he percieved himself to live, apparently. 



The writer wrote now.



The writer, by his very nature was the observer who commented on the past, no matter how infinetly close he may appear to himself to be in the present moment. “infinitely close,” repeated the writer to himself. This reminded him of a few lines of a Rumi poem he’d read last night. He remembered that the poem was on page seventy-two and seventy-three of the book that he’d purchased yesterday while shopping with his children. He now found his hand on the book which was in the past.



I do not see this book as it is now.

I do not see these hands as they are now.

I do not observe these thoughts as they are now.



This writer—the dying author-- commented on the present which he could not ever quite be a part of. Even when he was not writing, how close could this one who is observing come to the present? Was the observer in the present moment? Was this the whole purpose of the teachings of the Buddha? Was this the purpose of the the Vipassana practice? Was this why the writer now instinctively paused with his fingers hovering over home row, allowing the present to butt right up to the documentation of what he was trying to communicate? The writer now paused, his hand on the Rumi book. He grasped the book, this sacred form which the annointed one had apparently not written while he was here (How could the One who is a parable write the book? The One who is the parable is the one who is written of, yes? The Parable is the one around whom the legends are made, the One around whom the myths are told, the One story of which Joseph Campbell and Carl Jung built there lives around. Can the parable write of itself.) The writer finally brought the book to his own eyes after he reached over to the coffee table to retrieve the gift of his only Son, the uniquely crafted piece of stained wood with which he could hold a book open with one hand.



“…The moon has opened its face

And its wings made of light.



Borrow eyes to see this,

If yours cannot.



Night and day and arrow comes toward you

From a hidden bow.”

Rumi (translation Barks)



The writer, once again referred to the past with the intention of bringing you, dear reader, into this present moment, Just as his Algebra 2 instructor Mr. Watters (his fluid brother) had done for him so many years ago as he traced the infinity symbol, over and over again (as the infinity symbol invites) with a fine dry-erase marker on the overhead projector. The overhead projector fan droned on, the drone which invites accompaniement. The man—this teacher—this teacher of the infinity symbol, taught the form and structure of Algebra while often referring back to this infinity symbol which he traced on the overhead projector, right there for all to see. “Was this an act of subversion,” the writer now wondered. This man-of-water, tracing the infinity symbol, opening up the hidden universe for his students in this public school setting. In a dystopian parallel universe, the thought police might have violently pushed open the door, come in and swept Mr. Watters from the room, taking pictures of the convicting evidence before they left—this obvious attempt to infilitrate and infect the minds of the children under his charge—this infinity symbol still wet with the mark of this thin dry-erase marker which had been purchased with state funding with the exclusive purpose of teaching Algebra 2. The Juniors would have sat stunned as a replacement teacher came in, quick on the heels of the removal of the excessively fluid Watters. The highschool students would not have even taken too much notice as the infinity symbol was erased forever from the overhead projector, and Mr Watters was never seen again.



It was this Mr. Watters, the writer’s algebra 2 teacher who had also introduced him to theis proverbial arrow which, in approaching its target by half the distance every time, is never actually capable of reaching its mark—the same arrow that Rumi had just referred to—this arrow that “night and day comes toward you from a hidden bow.”



The writer now classified this memory of Watters among that of his Mother (The Universal Glow) as she taught him to fold the blueberries into the mixture. These are the examples through which this Universal Man had witnessed the Great Turning, The Great Learning, The Great Folding Over, the way by which we evolve, or move forward as a species—the view of reality by which we can never actually be classied as a species. Thank you, Mr Darwin. Spiral Dynamics: this way of looking at a species as a transmuting expression of consciousness, the same way that Ed, the Marxist, had shown him to see the thunderhead, that which we have reified (and the reified beans which Ed so subtly called our attention to, our neighbors who lived South of the border. Those neighbors which we knew no other way to relate other than objectification, or alienation. Thank you, Mr. Marx).



And it was the dream of this Great Turning that the sound from the bathroom door had awoken the man from at approximately 3AM that morning. This was the dream that the man feared that his consciousness would never return from on that Christmas morning when he had become an infant and longed for nourishment from a thumb--the Universal Thumb of this Universal Man who was now engaged in writing his own story from the Universal perspective of the Cosmic Christ. This author who was now so nobly engaged in this process of death and resurretion. This writer who now tried to answer the Universal-Calling of His-Life. The One who spoke in Parables. The One who was The Parable. The Parable that chose not to write itself, but chose rather, to show itself in its willingness to die for the sake of its own awakening. The parable that showed the way to the eternal by showing itself in the life of Watters, the life of the Mother, in the life and death and folding in of the blueberries which provide sustenance to the evolving consciousness of the Universal Human Being, that which knows no gender, no male or female. Praise be to the One Watters! Praise be to the one who stood in front of us all, tracing the infinity symbol with the fine drye-erase marker! Praise be to the Universal Fan which drones, an invitation to join the One Music. Praise be to the Universal Author who sits cross-legged on the Mother’s couch, fingers curled over home row, breathing in in effort to bring the present moment as close to these words as possible. Praise be to the invisible One Source from which we all flow. Praise be to the God who is available for the making of Love. Praise be to the hands that crafted the Great Mandolin and the Ude and all the stringed instruments from which our hearts are awakened to the Great Potential of Life. Praise be the ears that hear the Great Sound. Praise be to the birds, and to the sun, and to the sky in which they rest. Praise be to the Breath which is breathed by the ever expanding and contracting Univers. World without end, Amen. Amen.



Selah



The man writhed slightly in his seat, allowing the Great Sister Serpent, the Kundaline Serpent to make her way up through his Chakras. He said yes the the Great Turning of the wheels of those Chakras within his being. He said “yes” to the beauty of the female snake who had made an invitation to him on that Christmas morning, these memories that had faded from him so quickly as he tried to save his life from a death of which he was convinced was inevitably coming as the light faded from soft yellow to a dull green, a death which the man had backed away from, the edge from which the man had prayed he could return to the middle of the platform on which his life so precariously rested. 



And then there was his son-in-law, this beautiful being who rested right here with him in this very home from which the writer now channeled these Universal Messages. The Son-in-Law, this beautiful being who was now saying “yes” to his own being. The Son-In-Law whom the Father had blessed yesterday with that irrevocable blessing, the blessing which gives its approval in the acknowledgment of the life that is seen within. The blessing which cannot be taken because it is never given. The blessing that simply awakens the being to his being-ness. The blessing that is the I AM. The blessing that merely points this one to THE ONE. The beautiful son-in-law who would inherit the rising spirit of the times within himself, the convergent evolution of the Being arising from within himself.



The middle-aged-man was honored to have received the gift of Presence from his children this weekend, the truest Christmas present of all, the gift of Presence—the Presence that delivers us from all sin. 



The father had spoken with and heard from each of his children this weekend, including his Son-In-Law, and the father was well pleased in this gift. The father sat on his Mother’s couch, fingers curled over home row, once again a with-ness to this miracle of creation. Once again, the man said “yes” to the universal. Once again, the man said “yes” to that Which-Is flowing through him. Praise Be to the Great I AM. Praise be to What-Is.



Day 11

6:04AM



Having once again been ravaged by the love of his Lord (Hey! Give me a break, a man has certain needs you know!), the middle-aged-man sat naked on the blue bathroom mat, his back against the West wall this time. The man wondered if his sense of direction in this neighborhood was true to him, after all the winding of neighborhood streets that was required to finally find his mother’s home here on Two Bridge Drive.



As he sat in silence, communing with the What-Is, he recalled an email exchange that he’d had begun with Harbor Dave the morning after his trip with the medicine in the mountains where he’d witnessed the Christ in the dust of the Universal Moth. Praise the One who is drawn toward the Light! Praise the One Light which draw all Moths. He retrieved the email exchange. He copied and pasted it into the One Manuscript. He copied and pasted the exchange into the Universal Manuscript, the one being written by the dying author. 



And so it came to pass that the man with the yellow, elk skin gloves (Praise be to Her!) sat at the table in the Universal Kitchen of the One Cabin in the Universal Woods from which he would emerge a more whole being. Praise be to the Universal Father who makes peace with his Universal Child!



Responses below in blue!

On 2019-12-15 13:30, midle-aged-man wrote:

I seem to be more capable of putting my thoughts down when I have an audience in mind. I think that's normal, yes? "Consider your audience," they say. Well, Dave, today you are my audience. My audience is a guy named Dave that I met once at the Hummingbird work weekend. I can take the pressure!

 

What happens when I address the audience directly? What happens when I acknowledge my audience? What happens when I acknowledge the humanity of my audience? What happens when I communicate with my audience, understanding that there is a common thread? What is the common thread, Dave? Short answer: The humanity of the author. They do say that the link between writer and reader is a two-way street, and I suppose it is. But the writer's in the driver's seat. The reader's just a passenger. Doesn't mean the reader doesn't have power. The reader can always get off at the next exit if the road's too bumpy. So, in a sense, not only does the writer have all the power, but the lion's share of obligation to keep the relationship thriving. To keep the reader comfortable in his/her seat. (In a fully formed book, that is.)

 

I'm writing to you now as I sit in a cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. There is no cell service here. There is no wifi. I am writing offline. 

 

Last night I had an encounter with the wisdom of a fungus. What is the wisdom of a fungus? From what I understand, they were the ones who turned the rock into soil. There is a lot of wisdom in that, no? How does one take that kind of wisdom in? Or rather, How does one agree to that kind of exchange? Yes. That's what it was, I suppose. An exchange. Wise, wise creatures, that fungi. And (apropos of nothing) I just read the other day where a certain species of 'shroom in Chernobyl was breaking down specific chemicals and feeding off radiation. They'll still be here, long after we are gone, I suspect. (And I do love communicating with fungus. Some people call it a life-form. I think it's a doorway.

 

Obviously there are a lot of details in an experience like that. Jimi Hendrix would have said, "Are you experienced?" When I was fourteen I said yes to some kind of exchange when I heard that Album. Purple Haze. Hey Joe. Manic Depression. Those songs really spoke to me. But, I'm not going to talk about that now, because I'm going to send you the current draft of my autobiography. 

 

In the autobiography....What can I say about the Autobiography? I think I can just let the draft speak for itself. I am sure that you will find it very drafty. But, I have been told that that is how a draft should be...yes? Drafty? Yes. First drafts should be ugly. A quick sketch in what might eventually become an intricate oil painting.

 

I have shared this writing with a select few people. I even sent it off to a writer/philosopher/meditation-guru named Stephen Schettini (The Naked Monk). He told me that it reminded him of the first draft of his autobiography, which I had just read before sending him my drafty draft. He also said that there were a lot of details that might not be pertinent to the common thread that we are all looking for. He said that when he reads he is looking for his own healing. And that's what he wanted more of in the book. He said that he knew he was asking me to do the impossible in re-approaching this work. 

 

So, I pass this draft along to you today (well, not today, but as soon as I have wifi again) with all of this in mind. I'm passing this on to you today...why am I passing this on to you? What can I say that will be honest? I'm passing this on to you because I am trying to do the impossible; not just in the rewriting of this draft, but in my life. Ahhhh, so there may be a bit more coming out of this than I expected!! :)

 

I am attempting to hold the un-holdable. I am attempting to speak the unspeakable. I am attempting to let go of what is impossible to grasp. 

 

I broke all the promises I ever made, Dave. I just quit my job, simply because....too many details, Dave. I'm going to let you fill in the blanks there. You understand the anguish. 

 

My father always made sure that I had vehicles. Even after I was married with kids. He kept giving me cars, Dave. As I let go here, I am faced with the possibility of my children's cars being re-possessed. Too many details? 

 

I wept last night in anguish as I witnessed myself trying to accept the un-acceptable. 

 

The point, Dave, is that I am a strong bear. I know...I have not provided you with any context for that statement. (None needed! I think I get it.) But, you know what it's like the day after a trip like this, right? right. I know just enough about you to know that you know. Know your audience. How well does Travis know Dave? Just enough to open this door a crack?

 

I watched a moth last night, Dave. It's wing dust was smeared all over my blanket. I'm sure that I must have crushed him. I watched this moth in his dying moments. I witnessed his death. 

 

I wanted to touch him, but I knew that my fingers were too big. There was no possible physical interaction that I could possibly have with this moth. He reached out with a quivering antenna. then he began moving, very slowly, up the canyon of this soft red blanket. He moved almost imperceptibly slow. I knew that I could not leave him. I wondered how long this might take. How much could I take? He was like the Christ carrying the cross up the hill. I think he WAS the Christ. He eventually stopped his forward movement. He became very still. And as I examined him as closely as possible, as I did some kind of close-reading of this beautiful, dying creature, I saw the face of a cat. It reminded me of my cat, Eli, at home. There was some kind of glowing, like spider eyes in the forest when you shine your flashlight on the ground, a sparkling. And then he was gone. The life passed from him, and the cat's face was no longer there. 

 

Moments after, I finally turned out the light to try and go to sleep. I heard a fluttering. A moth came and buzzed my ear, and he grazed my arm, and then I could hear him fluttering against the window shade. Then his sound would disappear, and I could hardly live with not knowing when this moth might return and scare me. But, I did live with it. Somehow I lived with it. 

 

I was so deep in the soil last night that I wondered if I would ever return, the soil that the fungus made by pushing in its tendrils and busting up the rock. In what you've just told me—which is both lovely and wonderful—you've added another layer to your journey, to your writing. These last paragraphs fit like puzzle-pieces with your autobiographical writings. Because these last paragraphs tell a unique story about you. Perhaps you've just dipped your toe in a mountain lake? How's the water? Whether you're reading or willing to jump in....? Ah, that's your call.

 

Good morning, Dave

Today, you are my audience.

 

I send all of this to you with trust in my heart, reporting only what I saw and felt. Something is waking up inside me. Something is rising from within. This deeper power. The un-objectifiable. the un-name-able. The Mystery. The One. The Source. The Christ. The I AM. Great Spirit.

 

I cannot hold this by myself, Dave. I need your help. Not just your help, but the help of you and many others like you. I'm here! So is Eileen. Between us, we make a good backboard for ideas to land where they're perhaps best needed.

 

Yours in draftiness!

Dave

 

in draftiness

Travis

 

P.S. I decided not to send the draft because I see now that I have logged on that you are asking questions about the last writing I sent you. 



Hi Dave



I am very grateful for your investment in this happening in my life. We all have forms that we gather around, fires around which we dance. And I am understanding the writing to be the fire around which you and I are gathering. 



I understand your perspective as a writer and publisher. When I first began teaching music, I was always trying to teach people to take music just as seriously as I did. It was the only way I knew how to teach. After years of pushing people too hard, I realized that if I could just help people to enjoy their instrument, then I was doing them a great service. Not everyone, I finally realized, was going to take this as seriously as I do. What I hear you saying is that you see potential in my voice, but you are also giving me the liberty to maintain this form as something more personal. 



I journaled consistently for about 10 months this last year. At some point I realized that my best "journaling" was being done in the form of these long text messages that I was writing to people, so, I just started copying them into my journal. Through that, along with my mushroom email, I am seeing an important discovery. It is time for me to write with an audience in mind. I will try to not make any assumptions about what that means. However, I find the response I got from the "audience of Dave" to be very encouraging.



I was especially moved by your last comment about things fitting together like puzzle pieces. I felt that.



I was reading an excerpt from Eileen's Raindrops of Love yesterday. I cannot find it right now, but there is someplace where Life is saying something to the effect of "you have been asking this question: Who Am I?....etc...but the real question you need to be asking yourself is 'what can I bring forth into this world which will serve best for the continued arising of consciousness?'" Basically, "how am I best equipped to serve."



There are so many writers. So many books. So many musicians. So many albums. So many songs, Dave.



As I sit here on the top of this metaphorical mountain, cradled in the branches of this tree, listening to the wind and trying not to put any words in its mouth, I can't help but wonder. I have put my life on a little pause. I am asking Life to create a life for me that is better than I have been able to create. All my creation has dissolved before my eyes, and now I am unafraid. I have been granted the courage to walk into some great unknown. I have heard hero's stories like this.



Back to the fire and the dancing...or the practice of this form. I realized from your response that I have no desire to re-write my autobiography. If something else is to come, it must be something new, a re-approaching of what could be called "my life". I think Stephen Schettini told me everything I needed to hear about the draft of my first autobiography. I think that the "miracle that he asked for must be done through me, not by me.



For years I have toyed with fiction. I wrote the backstory for a Dungeons and Dragons character once (A young marshall artist monk named Jet-Ki..haha). I really enjoyed that. Also, I have brought mythical creatures into parts of my autobiography as a way of dealing with hurt that was unbearable. I also understand that any attempt to write non-fiction is bound by my inability to really tell the truth. In that sense, fiction seems like a much more suitable format for approaching truth. 



I heard you say that there is a mountain story here. That makes sense to me. I understand taking a pack up a mountain. I understand what it is to feel like prey, to wonder if I am being stalked. I hitchiked to Amarillo last week. I climbed a small mountain on Sunday. I baptized myself (again) in a cold mountain stream as a prayer to become a disciple of the universal Christ. These are the honest ways that I am interacting with the earth recently.



I always struggle for authenticity when I am addressing an audience. I've been performing musically for most of my life. My favorite performers are the ones who seem to be lacking the flavor of performance. It has been my desire to simply allow myself to be an authentic human being who just happens to be holding a guitar and singing on stage. I'd like my writing to be this way. In the past I have experimented with posting my writings on facebook, using the writing to make connections. 



The last word of the previous pararaph: "connections"....That is the purpose of the writing to me. I have seen that I must realize my space in the fabric of community. The manifest connections at this point are the essential part of this journey for me, the system of support. This is an authentic path, to write with the intent of connecting with my fellow human being. I am sending out little radio signals, little radar pings, bat or dolphin echolations, searching the skies and the seas for other beings. 



Today, as I write you I feel alive. I feel engaged. I feel heard, even before you have read this. Does that mean that I am being heard by a listener that is even greater than "Dave"? I think it does, and that feels authentic to me. I am being heard by my deeper Self. I am engaged from within and without.



I heard you say that each paragraph in "exquisite Stillness" seems like an introduction to a bigger idea. I am going to take another look at the piece that way, see what I see.



Sincerely Drafty



And it was in this way that the writer acknowledged the encouragement that he’d received from Harbor Dave of Muse Harbor Publishing. It was in this way that the writer felt himself being held in the arms of some Universal Big Brother (No. Not the kind from Orwell’s 1984!). The writer felt himself being held in the arms of his brother, Dave.



Dave had encouraged the budding writer to expand on the Exquisite stillness that he had found in the mountains. The Exquisite stillness was the man’s first documented mountain-top experience, a mountain story in which there were no mushrooms involved. There was only an uphill path, and a pack, and a fire, and a Forest…and fear…There was fear. And then there was the making of peace with that fear. And, oh yes, there was a cougar. The man believed her to be a mother cougar, which may or may not be expounded on later.



And so it came to pass that the writer cut and paste this first mountain story into this Universal telling of his own story, because (there is that “because” again) the Exquisite stillness and the telling of old stories seemed quite pertinent in this moment. “Because” he was trusting this process. He was trusting Dave and Eileen in the editing process that was on the far horizon. He cut and paste this little mountain story, holding on loosely to the outcome, wondering if it had a place. It did have a place. It had its place in this draft, in all its draftiness.



Exquisite Stillness



exquisite—extremely beautiful and delicate. highly sensitive and discriminating.



My father is a very fearful man. Of course, he would never admit it. But his fear has eroded a deeply grooved path in his being. Like water which runs through a canyon, my father has no choice but to follow the course that fear has carved through the terrain of his inner person.

My father has never learned that he is not exactly like his thoughts. He is completely identified with every thought and emotion that he experiences. That’s why he is so easily offended. If his thoughts or emotions are challenged he has no choice but to become defensive and angry.

My father suffers deeply. But he has hidden his suffering so well from himself that he cannot understand why he feels the way he does. Because he cannot ease his own suffering he must blame people and circumstances for the way he feels. 

Just last year I asked my father to come and help me. I was going through a difficult time with a recent divorce. My kids weren’t speaking to me. I was plagued by suicidal thoughts. My father was very helpful. He helped me to make the home where I was staying livable. When I asked him for money that he didn’t have, he became very angry, telling me, “You are the reason that I am a bitter old man. I have dreamed of putting a bullet in your head. And I have dreamed of putting a bullet also in the head of your mother.” His eyes were red and tearful and full of rage as he pointed his finger at me from across the table. Although I was also suffering, I was able to ask him to forgive me for the pain that I had caused him.

My father does not have friends. He told me that he has intentionally pushed people out of his life and that he experiences satisfaction when his birthday passes and no one acknowledges him. He has also told me that he is hurt when no one acknowledges his birthday. He has said both things to me. I think I understand how both can exist in separate moments.

It is difficult for me to relate to my father. I know that if I challenge his thoughts and emotions there will be conflict. It seems that merely presenting my own experience challenges him, so I often just let him talk and talk about the way he sees the world, knowing that it will be easier if I just stay quiet.



I am beginning to see how I too, have lived in fear. I am beginning to see how my suffering has injured others. I am beginning to learn how to give myself the compassion needed to allow my fearful thoughts and emotions to dissolve. I am no longer blaming people and circumstances for my own suffering. Now I hope to stop blaming myself and find an entirely new option.



When I was four years old I watched the movie Jaws. The ocean, I understood, is where fear resides. But that’s not really how it is. Fear resides in my own mind. The ocean is just the ocean and sharks are just sharks. I understand now that there is some remote possibility that if I go into the ocean that a shark might eat me. But if I allow my fear to dictate where I go and what I do, then I may never go into the ocean and play in the waves.

When my children were young, we took them to the ocean for kayaking. I and my oldest daughter, Anna, became seasick. Our guide, Max, suggested that we jump in the cool water to relieve our nausea. I felt sure that as soon as I jumped in the ocean that I would be eaten by a shark, but I jumped in anyway, and so did my daughter. I did not want to pass on my fear to her.



This weekend I went on a solo backpacking adventure in the Pecos Wilderness of New Mexico. As I was signing the trail register, I noticed someone had written a warning about cougars. “Stay together!” they wrote. I was by myself. There was no one to stay together with. As I set out on the trail I felt like prey, scanning the mountain above and below for movements of large cats.

After seven exhausting hours on the trail, I pitched my tent, made myself dinner, and built a large fire. The crackling warmth of the flames made me feel safe and secure. It was the first time I had ever been in the wilderness all by myself. I went to sleep watching the campfire from the tent. Two hours later I awoke suddenly. The fire was out. It was dark. There was a mysterious clicking sound close to my camp. I was terrified.

I lay there for some time, hoping that I could fall back to sleep, but I could not. I finally sat up in the tent as straight as I could. I listened to the strange clicking sound. A light rain began to fall on my small tent. The sound of the raindrops hitting the tent just inches from my head was unpleasant. I startled with fear when the logs in the fire shifted suddenly. My brain started inventing other reasons to be fearful, but panic was not an option. I was miles from anyone or anywhere. No cell reception. No help. no comfort.

I recalled my meditative practice and then I calmly prayed. I focused my attention on my breath. I realized that no matter how unpleasant the sound of the rain was, I could not change that. I accepted that I was vulnerable and alone in a dark forest with only a thin layer of fabric between me and the wild. I had no control over any of this. The only thing I had any chance to control was my response to fear.

Eventually the rain stopped. I recalled something I had read earlier that day from Pema Chodron. She had encouraged me to move toward my difficulties instead of trying to push them away. I wondered, “What if I get out of this tent and just sit outside in the dark?” I allowed myself some room to make friends with this idea. Part of me was resistant, but another part of me thought that that might be okay. Minutes passed. As I opened the tent, the sound of the zipper seemed to echo throughout the canyon. I found my sandals and then I sat again, waiting for the courage to go out into the dark, closer to whatever threats, real or imagined, might await me. As I finally emerged I could see the outlines of large rocks and trees. I sat on a large stone by the extinguished campfire. I could still feel some warmth emanating from the darkened coals.

As I stared into the dark forest, I allowed myself to become aware of my breathing. Thoughts came and went. I imagined a sudden piercing howl. I imagined that Golem was creeping around on the rocks just outside my camp. I imagined that a large cougar was stalking me, skulking down the mountain in preparation to attack. But, every time a thought came I allowed myself to return to the stillness that was all around me. I told myself, “none of these imaginations are actually happening.” What was happening in my surroundings was stillness. The mysterious clicking had stopped. The rain had ceased. There was absolutely no wind. I was in the middle of a profoundly still forest. Exquisite stillness.

When I allowed the stillness between my thoughts to align with the stillness of the Pecos Wilderness there was harmony. Stillness within. Stillness without. As the fears came I understood that I had a choice. I could allow my mind to entertain fear, but then I would be missing what was really going on. So I just kept coming back to the stillness, and when I did that, there was no fear. I had no control over what might happen in the next moment. But that was really none of my business. I was much more concerned with what was actually happening, this Exquisite Stillness. I was eventually able to return to my sleeping bag. I slept until the sun rose.



Hiking down the mountain is often much easier than hiking up. Me and my son Joseph have hiked together a number of times. He likes to consider all that potential energy that we store up in our bodies as we are hiking up the mountain which is now being converted into kinetic energy as we make our way down. 

I made my way down the mountain to my little blue Toyota with a cracked windshield. Still sensing the release of this kinetic energy as I drove home from my solo backpack adventure, I called my father. I wanted to talk to him about how I had felt in my role as potential cougar food, because I knew he would understand. He loves to think about the terrors of being eaten alive. Our conversation was the impetus for the words you are now reading.

I have lived for most of my adult life powerless to control how I respond to fear. My fears were so deeply imbedded that I didn’t even understand that they were fears. I participated in psychotherapy; I joined churches; I prayed; I had demons cast out of me; I went to AA meetings; I exercised; I studied; I tried to be a loving person; I became an atheist; I meditated; I became a feminist; I had intelligent and caring friends; I listened to my wife; I went back to school and got a better job; I played music; I got standing ovations; I did so many things to try to fix myself, but fear continued to dictate how I perceived the world. Even when the forest was still, my brain was inventing fears.

I want to be careful here that I don’t sound like I have the answer, but if I am truthful, I feel like I do. I will try to explain. Today the answer for me is acceptance of what-is, and confidence that a power greater than myself is able and willing to restore me to sanity. When I am in the dark forest all by myself and my brain is inventing a half dozen reasons that I should be scared, I now know that I am not obligated to follow these story lines. If I am willing to look inward toward this Exquisite Stillness, I can experience a profound shift in my perception, a miracle of perception change. Today I am willing to experience a deeper Reality than I was able to conjure for myself. If I allow it, this deeper Reality will flow from within me. A well has been unstopped that I had allowed to be clogged by all of my fearful suffering.

All of those things I said about my father, those things are true about me too. And if that is the reality that I choose, I render myself powerless, bound to my fearful story lines. 

No matter how hard I tried, I could not think myself out of my inherited mental illness. But today something has changed. Today I have a reprieve from my insanity. Today I am focused on this Exquisite Stillness.



…And so the first story of the mountain was told by the middle-aged-man, the story of the Exquisite stillness. This was the story of a man who had been trying to make peace with his father for a lifetime, and the story of a father who had also been trying to make peace with his son.



And this is how the writer, the one who was sitting at his mother’s home in Oklahoma City, came to witness again the long journey up the mountain that he had been making over the previous year. For it had been three-hundred-and-sixty-seven days since he had driven his little blue toyota, the one with the severely cracked windshield, to the Emergency room instead of going to work on that December day. It was just over a year since the middle-aged-man found himself walking the circular hallway of the psychiatric unit in Roswell, New Mexico where he had received the prayer of restoration from the One called Clinton (that Universal Crossroads), the gay black man who had interceded on behalf of the man, the man who had just had another cavity search, the one who had just prayed, “God, please help me.”



But there is still another mountain story to be told, dear reader. And the dying author is very much looking forward to the possibility of sharing that story with you. The story of how a man flew up a mountain with a feather and was rocked in the arms of a an evergreen.



Day 11

8:03 AM



It was time for the man to travel again



And so it came to pass that the writer prepared for his journey to Bentonville, Arkansas to meet with his two new publisher friends. He sat in the red and white checkered chair by the large windows in his mother’s living area which was adjacent to her kitchen. His mother emptied the dishwasher. His eldest studied her part for her lead role in a French comedic opera. His youngest was mischeviously interacting with the world as usual. His son still slept, and would be likely continue sleeping for quite some time. His son-in-law, his best son-in-law, was present also, the son-in-law in whom the father was well pleased and who he loved very much.



If he left now he would have a chance to visit the art museum that his mother had been recommending to him for years, his mother, the Universal Glow. “Maybe,” thought the wildly talented writer, “maybe I can meet with my old friend Vincent, that one who struggled in this world, that one who tried so desperately in his relationship with light to make peace with this Universe that was out to help him. And Vincent, our dear Mr. Van Gogh truly did make peace with the world, and he passed it down to his brothers and sister in this way.



It was with deep trust and affection for all that is that the writer, somewhat hesitantly left his joyful family that morning. He left them in Love. He left them with thanksgiving in his heart.



Amen and Selah.



The windshield of the man’s little blue Toyota was iced over. He needed a tool. He started the engine, turned the heat on high defrost, and picked up Dickey Lee Erwin’s CD case from the middle console. CD cases can make good ice scrapers when its not too cold and the ice is not too thick. The process did not take all that long. He used the neighbors driveway for a turn-around. As he passed house after house in his mother’s comfortable neighborhood, he was reminded of the mandolin that he left behind. His guitar was with him, but his mandolin was not. He turned the car around, as a prayer of willingness to listen, He parked the blue toyota in his mother’s driveway, went inside, grabbed the mandolin, said another short goodbye to his family, then passed over the threshold of his mother’s home again. 



He found the Rucker Brother’s CD, the album that he had written and produced with his old friend from music school back in 2006. The album spoke to him of hope, his friends last name, Matthew Hope. He praised the Spirit of Music which chose to flow so freely through his friends hands in the album they had created together. His friend was truly a conduit, some might say a genius. 



The album played out. The middle-aged-man called his friend Matt. No answer. Voicemail not setup. The man texted his friend Chris with an invitation to call him. No response. The man continued the journey on his own, giving praise for the sense of purpose that he felt in his being, giving thanks for the clarity in his mind and soul, giving thanks for death and the resurrection that he knew in his being, He picked up his phone and accessed its audio-recording app. He raised the phone to his lips.



The man traveller spoke these words that day as he scooted down the Oklahoma turnpikes in his little blue toyota, stopping to pay the tolls along the way. There was something about the name of the traveller that had to do with paying a toll or keeping a gate or existing at the crossroads.



 “I pray that God would keep me rooted, right here in this moment, moving at the speed of life. Gratefulness in this heart. Thanksgiving on these lips. Peace. Peace. Peace to you, my dear reader.”



Maybe following life is like foraging as a hunter gatherer—seeing the nuts and the berries, or following the herd of animals as they migrate. Maybe it’s more like than than obeying a command. It makes more sense to me that it would be like that.



The writer, the middle aged man, the dying author held his phone close to his face and spoke into the audio recording app reveling in the idea of his words being captured in real time as he drove down the road. He passed a sign for Braums where he worked as a soda jerk in his twenties after selling all he had to buy that field. He tapped his brakes, taking his little blue toyota out of cruise control in order to stay with the flow of traffic, in order to stay moving at the speed of life. He was on interstate 244 East heading toward downtown Tulsa. 



Tusla OK, the city in which he and his now ex wife had spent their first married evening. He took the Joplin exit where the road forked (he laughed) and he was reminded of the binary. Yet, in that moment his forward motion did not cease, for he did not wish to cause a traffic accident. His GPS told him that he had sixty five more miles to go til his next fork in the road.



He passed the bartlesville exit. Bartlesville, that town where one of his old friends was from. Kevin, the gifted guitar player that he had made much music with so many years ago in those early year of his marriage. Kevin, the friend who had called him with correction in his heart as the hitchhiker sat at Denny’s. Kevin the man who had spent six years in prison. Six soul crushing years in a federal prison. When kevin’s voice arrived over the cell phone as the man sat at Denny’s the man created space between as graciously and as kindly as possible, simply saying, “with all love and respect, I’m going to hang up the phone now.” He had not heard from him since, nor had he tried to contact him.



The man took a moment to make his heart right toward his old friend. The man took this moment to allow this miracle to happen as he drove through downtown Tulsa, the place where he and his wife had spent their first married night. But today, the man felt his own company, and it was good company. And the man felt the company of you, dear reader, as he drove on those elevated interstates, fifty-eight miles now to the next fork in the road. He marvelled at the joy that was in his heart. This pure, simple, clean, light-hearted experience. He knew that if a word search was done on this manuscript, that the word “experience” would certainly be the most used. “That’s appropriate,” thought the man, “Considering where I came from. Considering that album made by that twenty-something year old man who’d asked him that question, “Are You Experienced.” The traveller laughed out loud at eighty miles per hour.



That fourteen year old boy took that question into his heart. That fourteen year old boy took that album into his heart. He took that creation into his heart. And it was his own creation that he’d made with his old college friend, Matt Hope, that the man took into his heart at the beginning of his journey to Bentonville Arkansas. With fifty four miles to go to the next fork, he breathed in the joy of life. He breathed in all of these connections that he was sensing. He rested in the weave of life, as he travelled at the speed of that life. That’s one of the things he had seen the first time he took the medicine. He saw the fabric of being. He saw the fabric of community. And he saw himself supported in that fabric.



Ther was still the potential for fear in the man’s heart. He felt some, just then, with fifty one miles to the next fork. He felt the fear in his heart. Fea that maybe he’d missed it. Fear that maybe he hadn’t worked hard enough. Fear that he should be at work right now in the physical therapy clinic He almost passed a state trooper doing sixty-five in a fifty-five mile per hour zone.



He passed a billboard for a gentleman’s club called “Sensations.”



Bright orange pylons and arrow signs pointing in different directions signaled construction zones.



Rick Springfield was sheduled to play at the Hard Rock Café, casino, and Resort.



He looked down at his gas gauge, less than a quarter of a tank. He opened his heart to his environment. As he thought of those trackers who somehow see the world through the animals eyes, a red GMC truck passed him on the left. He checked his GPS, sixteen miles to the Stone Creek gas station in Inola, Oklahoma. His GPS indicated his arrival time to be around noon in Bentonville, which would give him an hour to see if he could find Mr. Van Gogh at the art museum which his mother recommended that he see for years now.



And so the road seemed to open up wide in front of him as he approached the horizon on a hill. Tulsa disappeard in his rearview mirror—forty two miles to the next fork in the road.



As the left lane closed down for construction up ahead, the traffic lined up in single file. The man came to a fork in the road of his own—that place all writers encounter when they must choose between one story or the other. 



He was reminded of an image of a chimpanzee who was holding as many oranges as he could carry in his arms and hands, and also he carried one orange in each of his feet as he was walking upright. This was apparently one of the benefits that came with bipedal motion as the primates came down from the trees and began to walk on two legs. Walking on only two legs gave us hands with which to carry food and children. The writer was pleased. He waited at the fork in the road. He paused at the binary. He chose neither story that had presented itself when he had the vision of the chimpanzee, our nearest cousin in the tree of life.



Both lanes opened up again. Then the orange signs reappeared and the road narrowed once again to a single lane. The gas station approached, less than a mile ahead. He drove under massive power lines. He merged into the right turning lane and he stopped to gas up at the sinclair.



He wondered how closely this narrator was related to the observer. He pumped his gas and he went inside. “The I AM simply observes. The narrator is the one who tells story with language,” he thought as he stood at the urinal, speaking into his telephone, wondering if someone would walk in on him mid-sentence.



As he made his way throught the gas station and out the door, he realized he was hungry. He had not eaten that morning except for a few candied pecans from his mother’s kitchen island. Those lovely pecans who had so attractively offered themselves to him as he packed his lunch. Fortunately he had packe some food for his journey. There was a variety to choose from as he had packe three tupperware containers that morning at the home of the Universal Glow. He munched on some of his aunt lindi’s famous cheese log. He ate a couple of pieces of chicken that the family had eaten the night before. He didn’t want to be too full for he was scheduled to have a meal with Dave and Eileen. He dipped a frito in an avocado. He tasted a penut butter cookie. One final bite of chicken. Then he started his car and navigated out of the gparking lot, turned right twice, and merged onto the Interstate.



“You’re packing too much food,” his youngest daughter’s voice from that morning rang in his ears. “I believe you are correct,” he said, out loud as he completed his merge into the right lane. 



The writer was looking for dialogue opportunities. “What else is it that I’m trying to develop in my writing?” he thought to himself. “Oh yes, I want to allow the reader to experience the story with their senses. I’m creating context in which the dialogue can occur when I allow the audience to experience the environment with their senses. And I’m choosing the Universal message as I allow the dialogue to form. It’s not at all important that I remember exactly what was said. It’s only important that I allow Life to show me what was actually being said.”



The man had always been curious about what people took away from conversations. He was also curious about those memories that shape us and move us forward in life. He was curious about first memories. As a father raising his children, he was especially curious about which moments in the lives of his children would be formative, so he questioned his children as they were growing up about what they remembered. 



Just that morning, in fact, one of his children asked the man about a memory. 

“Do you remember when your brother was born, Dad?” asked his son. 

“Yes, I do,” he said. “Let me show you how I remember it.”

The father lowered himself to his knees in front of the fireplace, next to the snake-skin-pattern chair. The rug on which his knees rested was thick and textured with yellows and greys. 

“This is how I remember my brother being born,” he said.



The man held an imaginary car in his right hand. It was an orange volkswagen Beetle that zoomed forward when you pulled it back. He pulled the car back on the thick carpet and then he watched as it rolled forward on the hospital lobby floor. When the car came to a stop, he retrieved it joyfully and repeated the process.



The middle-aged-man’s three children watched intently as the little boy played with his new toy that his parents bought to keep him occupied as he waited for his little brother to be born.



As the little boy stood up he was once again a man, the father of the children who were, for that brief moment, his audience. 

“And that’s what I remember about my brother being born,” he said to them. “I don’t have a memory of a baby boy, but I do remember waiting in the hospital lobby, playing intently with that little car,” he said. “But, you know what?” he questioned rhetorically. “I am not for sure that the car was self-powered like I said it was. I feel pretty certain that it was an orange car, but I’m not exactly sure that it was a volkswagen Beetle. That event happened over forty one years ago. I was four years old. I have played and replayed that memory for myself many times throughout my life. I can’t really be certain of much surrounding that memory, but that’s the story I just told surrounding the birth of my brother, and that evolving memory came to signify his birth in my mind.”









