Day 17

12:29AM



The man often woke now with a vsion

Of a universal screen before him

Universal fingers

Curleed over a universal 

Home row

Universal words 

on Universal lips

never quite captured

As he lingered there 

between

Sleeping ad wakefulness



It was after midnight. He’d been asleep for four hours. He awoke with the inspiration that he had hoped for, the inspiration that he needed to take one more step toward the story of the second mountain. His left wrist had begun slightly aching these last couple of days. He assumed his southerly facing position in front of the mirror at his mother’s house with the beveled edge where he could only see the bottom half of his face, his great unkempt beard (which his mother, by the way, hated!) encouraging him with every turn of every miracle. It was eight hours until he was scheduled to leave to Kansas to visit his last living grandparent, his mother’s mother, the one who bore the Universal G-lo (Glow). 



His Grandmother, the woman who’d sang to him “Close To You” by the Carpenters when he was a little boy. The woman who’d fed him lobsters and Colorado cherries and Hollandaise eggs. The woman who expressed her love in the food that she prepared. It was his aging grandmother that he’d wished to see, and so he asked his mother if she would take him to see her. And his mother, The Universal G-lo, had agreed to leave on Saturday morning so they could take her to lunch.



The writer now found himself at a crossroads, There was his Grandmother and the family that she represented. And there was the mountain, the second mountain of this story, the large pile of rocks just outside of the Lincoln National Forest. He stood at the Crossroads. Or rather, he sat at the crossroads in half-lotus position after he took three pillows off of his bed and stacked them by the bed. He did not want to approach the mountain before its time, dear reader. He did not want to abort anything else that may be between him and the mountain. 



So He made himself an offering. He presented himself as an offering. He presented himself as an offering to Life as he sat there in acknowledgment of his vipassana practice, in acknowledgement of the breath of God, the Universal Breath of life, that name of Spirit that was beyond all names, the name that could not be spoken.



It was the Owl Woman, the owner of the Universal Cabin in the Great Forest whom he had first told the story of the Moth. No, actually, he recalled now, it was her mate, The Universal Stan, the One who brings Us all together whom he first shared the story of the Moth. But it was with the Owl Woman, whom he’d first shared the story with emotion.



The three of them sat in communion, breaking bread in Cloudcroft, that quaint little town nestled in the forest where the gravel streets wound up the mountain face. The middle-aged man wondered how difficult it must be to navigate these streets after a hard snow in the winter. 



It was the next day, early in the afternoon, the day after he’d had the vision of the Universal Christ in the moth. The vision, induced by the medicine he’d taken the afternoon before as he took refuge in the Owl Woman’s lodge. He sat with the Owl Woman and the Universa Stan at a café in this Universal Town in the mountain valley. It was here that the middle-aged-man he’d first shared his vision of the Moth with his friends. It was in this town that he bought Christmas presents for his children, mittens with removable fingers, and totem animals carved from marbled stone.



The Owl Woman had just acquired another home in her little mountain community. The new home, the place where she and the Universal Stan would retire, was a beautifully unique structure with a soul of its own. It stood on a South facing Slope which was a good thing as she did not wish the snow to linger on her steps in the winter. There were no parallel walls in the living area of the home, an intentional architectural choice that gave the home a flow, and the spirit of the Great Architect dwelt there within its walls. After the Owl Woman gave the middle-aged man a tour of the entire home, including the back yard which opened itself freely to the Northern Wilderness, they made their way down the mountain (the owl woman walked, the two men drove because of Stan’s hips) to find lunch in the café.



The three of them sat together that early afternoon. They shared a Universal meal, The middle-aged-man filled up his little blue Universal car with gas. He purchased his Universal Children some Universal gifts and then he returned, alone, to the Universal Cabin in the woods. It was there that he faced the stillness without the medicine. A night by himself in the stillness of the cabin. 



He went to bed early, hoping to sleep through the night. When he woke later, he did not consult his cell phone for the time. Instead he asked the Great Spirit, “What time is it,” a question that had been born the night before after he’d ingested the medicine. A question that came before “Father?” 



“What time is it?” a Universal question. One that is asked before consulting a watch or a cell phone for the time. A question that leaves space for an answer. A question whose purpose was to leave space for stillness and myster after the asking. And the question did just that as the long long night stretched out before the middle-aged-man. 



The man prayed for the lasting strength of the visions that he’d seen. The man gave thanks to his Father. The man longed to make peace with his earthly father. The man wrote an email to Harbor Dave with the first written version of the story of the moth, this was just days before the initial distress call went out to Muse Harbor, just days before the beginning of this project which you and I now rest in, dear reader. 



As the long night in the cabin wore on, the man did all things in acknowledgement of the great gift that he received in the vision of the Christ Moth. He took a warm bath. He went upstairs, walking into the dark upper chamber without turning on the light, an uncomfortable experience in unfamiliar territory. He played his guitar and his mandolin. He sang. He read his bible. He prayed. He journaled. He clothed himself in his hooded olive jacket--the one that was beginning to feel so much like home--and he put on his yellow elk skin gloves (Praise be to Her!). He went outside into the cold moonlight. He sat on the front porch in a deck chair, waiting on the Lord.



After all this business was complete he was bored. He was facing the great meaninglessness. He opened his phone and began thumbing through all the pictures of the last three years of his life. His final family vacation to Hawaii with his children and their mother. A solar eclipse. The selfies that his daughter loved to secretly implant in his phone, once she learned his security code. And then there was the woman from Bermuda. Dozens and Dozens of pictures of the woman from Bermuda. He became lost in their love affair. He felt her. He wanted her. He became her. He relived the gift of that passionate love affair, and then he consumated it with her image in his mind. Then he fell asleep.



The earth rotated on its axis. The first light of the sun began to seep into the sky between the trees. Finally, he could see the blue light through the East Window of that two story cabin in the woods. Praises be to God! He could finally see the light after that long lonely night!



The man rose with regret in his heart for having used the image of the woman for his own selfish pleasure. “Am I falling back into some kind of religious guilt?” he wondered as a song from his past was revived in his heart:



Create in me a clean heart, Oh God

And renew a right spirit within me

Cast me not away from your presence, Oh God

Take not thine holy spirit from me

Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation

And renew a right spirit within me



He considered the words of this song. “I love the idea of God creating in me a clean heart. And I’m all for this ‘renewing of a right-spirit,’ but what’s the deal with this begging of God not to ‘cast me away,’ what the fuck’s up with that? Is that what this has come back to? Am I once again begging God not to punish me? Uggh.”



And so it went that the integration process continued as he went on with his business. The integration of that which is usable and the casting off of that which is not. His AA family said it like this: “take what you can use and leave the rest.” The man simply loved that about AA. The people in those rooms and the 12 steps that they used had empowered him to trust a God of his own understanding. And today, The man did not understand God to be a Presence that cast anything or anyone away. The God of this man’s understanding was not one who ‘takes away his spirit’ from anyone. 



And so it went that the man sensed what was right for himself. On that day he was not comfortable in the pulling off of his own reproductive organ using the image of a woman whom he was not in relationship with. It was that simple. And he accepted that about himself. And he judged no one else for their personal choices. And their didn’t have to be any shame or fear that God would withdraw His presence because of a simple jerking-off. “The only one who can separate me from God’s presence is me,” said the man to the friendly bear. “And by the way,” said the man to the bear, “You are a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear!” And once again the man felt the strength coming back into his own being. “I am the only one who can separate myself from God!” He pronounced to the friendly cabin in the forest. “This is the very nature of the Universal Christ. The arms of Christ are always wide open. Any separation that I experience is simply because I have decided that I can’t live with myself. My own guilt and shame separate me from God, so it really does have everything to do with the question, ‘can I live with myself?’ Now, if I do something that I can’t live with, then there is a problem, and I better find a way to live with myself. I better find a way to invite Presence into my situation so that I can live with myself. And it is the unrevokabe Presence that allows me to live with myself in the first place.” The man allowed this personal revelation to set him free. The man had lived many years not understanding how his own ego was preventing him from experiencing the Presence. “Is this why the Christ Child called Jimi Hendrix asked that question to him so many years ago? ‘are you experienced’” The man was experiencing the Christ in everything and everyone. Jimi Hendrix, the Christ Child who drowned in his own vomit, how’s that for a salvation story? The one who died so that we all may live. Praise be to the Great Noel Redding and the Great Mitch Mitchell who held Jimi for as long as they could. Jimi Hendrix, the man who just wanted to be held. Amen and Selah .



As the sun rose the man began to gather his things which had been spread all over the cabin. He retrieved some tuna packets from his backpack in the car. He gratefully ate and gave thanks to the Tuna, the hands that caught her, and the One who brought them together. He finished the rest of the cinnamon roll that he thought he would never be able to eat because of the unacceptable shame that he’d carried in his heart just the night before hours before—The shame that was dissolved when the Great Father came to hold him. The shame that dissolved as he strength that he acknowledged in the carved, wooden bear seemed to fill his own heart. “You are a strong strong strong strong strong strong bear.” He’d proclaimed over and over again to the bear with the piercing eyes which had awoken his heart. And afterwards, that was when the Father had appeared to him in the depths of his own strong-bear heart.



He gathered his books and his journal. He gathered the framed photograph of the many open doors that was given to him by Arlene, another Universal Mother. He folded his clothes. He folded all of the blankets that had kept him warm, including the red fleece blanket on which he had witnessed the journey of the Christ Moth. He gathered his children’s Christmas presents. He stacked all these items by the door in preparation for his departure. 



Then, he gathered his instruments, but not before recording the two songs that had been sustaining him during this time (The Eye of the Hurricane and I Give Myself Away). He recorded those songs in the presence of the other strong bears who inhabited the cabin. He recorded those songs in the presence of the Owl. He recorded those songs in acknowledgment of the support that he’d received from Bruce Sanguin, the mystic, christian clergyman who had allowed his life to be dismantled by the Spirit in the medicine. The middle-aged-man recorded those two songs in recognition of the gifts that he’d received in his two nights at the cabin. He recorded those songs in recognition of all the gifts that he’d received in his whole life that had brought him to this point. This healing point. Praise be to the One who gives all good gifts and turns our heart toward those gifts that we were once unable to see as good. Praise be to God, whose goodness cannot be exaggerated.



As he packed transferred his things from the cabin into the car he became deeply aware that his was a story of grace and acceptance. He recalled one of the ceremonies of two nights before: As the Great Wisdom rose from within he face the West. He held his arms out and felt himself as the Christ hanging on the cross. His arms were open wide, just as he’d witnessed his friend, the man who’d baptized him just the weekend before hold his arms open as he sang. The man held this open-armed postion for as long as he was able. It was not an act of asceticism, it was an act of love, an act of saying “yes” to an acknowledging all the suffering that ever was, all the suffering that he’d ever known personally, all the suffering that was to surely come. It was an acknowledgement that he was not alone in his suffering. That there was One who had suffered before him, One who was able, by the Spirit to willingly give himself to the suffering. An example of Surrender. An example of courage. This One, the man now acknowledged in his being. He acknowledged the presence of this One. This Christ. The annointed One. The One who had brought him salvation so many years ago. The One who came to him within the context of a limited form. The One who had drawn him deeper, past the all the forms that had been unable to hold him. And this form, that he held, this form of the cross was an exercise, testing his muscles and showing him how to joyfully exert himself. This ceremony was a kind of Christ-Yoga, if you will. And that night, after he’d received the medicine into his body, he was saying yes to the Yoga of the cross as he joyfully strained his muscles in the holding of this position. He remembered, once again, the prayer of his youth.



I want to know the Christ

The power of his resurrection

The fellowship of sharing in his suffering

Becoming like him in his death

And so somehow to achieve (receive)

A resurrection from the dead 



Day 17

3:22AM



How will you hold me

When the pain comes like this?

She looked me in the eyes and betrayed me with a kiss



She said, “You cannot walk on water”

With a tongue sharp to kill

But in the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



The middle-aged-man packed his little blue toyota. The windshield had large cracks running all through it where his youngest daughter (pure healing) had nearly pushed it out with her legs as she ceased. That afternoon, on their way back from Lubbock, Texas she went unconscious as they drove west on highway eighty-four. It was her second seizure of the day. The first one happened in the parking lot at the mall. She phased out mid-sentence as she was telling her father a joke, her eyes traced an arc along the inside ceiling of the car. Her father thought it was part of the joke, but it was not. His daughter began shaking. Bubbling saliva came from her mouth. She stopped breathing. As the father cradled her in his arms, she was turning blue. He spoke to her calmly. “Breathe baby, breath. It’s time to breathe, baby.” And then she did breathe. 



They sat there in the parking lot, the two of them. She not knowing where she was, or who she was. The father, with tears in his eyes and love in his heart. He had never seen one of these before. He had never been present as she ceased. But he was present that day. A presence arose from him, the likes of which he had never known before. The presence of a father as his daughter’s life appeared to be passing away right before him. He spoke to his daughter as she recovered from this violent occurrence in her being. He spoke to her as she recovered from the lightning that had struck so forcefully in her brain, rendering her unconscious, gripped by an un-fightable force.



She came to. She knew who she was. They continued their day. The father took her to get her belly button pierced. And three hours later, as they travelled East on eighty-four, it happended again. He convers were propped on the windshield when the lightning struck again. She stiffened like a board. The window cracked under the pressure that her wooden legs exerted on the glass. The father pulled over on the side of the road. The windshield shifted an bulged. Large stars were birthed under each of her shoes.



When she finally relaxed, the father was able to remove her feet from the windshield. He held her again, once again calmly chanting, “Breathe, baby, breath. Breath, baby, breath.” Her friend Yumi was with them this time. She encouraged from the back seat. She turned less blue this time. She breathed again to the father’s relief.



She had been to a psychiatric unit recently after she had taken a hand full of pills. At the psychiatric unit, they failed to administer her seizure medications properly. Praise be to the daughter who takes the next breath! Praise be to the daughter who recovers! Praise be to the Universal Daughter, the One whose name means Pure Healing! Praise be to the Pure Healing that is arising in this world through the feminine nature. Praise be to the Christ Daughters! Those ones who have turned blue, yet start breathing again! Praise the Universal Daughter!



The middle-aged-man in the Lincoln National Forest hardly saw the cracks any more. But he remembered just then. It took several trips to load all his possession in the small car, and then he was off.



“What time is it?” He asked the Universal clock. He consciously averted his eyes from the clock in his dashboard. He was more interested in what the Universal time was. 



“What time is it?” he repeated. I need to know. 



He allowed the space to accumulate after he asked the question. He was wide open. He was ready to get on the road. The lyrics to one of his songs came to him:



Maybe I could ride straight through to my destiny

Like a highway-man the best of me

Seems to be on the road

Where my future’s laid wide open



“What time is it?” he asked again, as the gravel crunched under the tires of the little toyota.



The middle-aged-man prayed for guidance. He asked to be directed. It was his growing desire to travel at the speed of life. This man had no job. He had no home of his own. This man had broken all the promises that he’d ever made. This man had done his twelve step work. This man had pushed himself. He had punished himself. Now he was asking for direction.



“What time is it, Lord?” He said.



As he was packing for his trip to the cabin a few days ago, he’d expressed to his friend Dan his desire to renew the personal aspect of his relationship with God. The middle-aged-man had even brought his bible as a prayer to renew that personal relationship that he had known so many years ago as a younger man.



As a younger man he had given himself to the experience of God in such a whole hearted way that everyone around him saw. They saw the change in him. They saw the change that is called repentance, in some circles. They saw him turn away from fear and embrace love. They saw him turn away from isolation and choose community. They saw him turn away from anger and choose compassion. They saw him turn away from sarcasm and choose innocent friendliness. It was recognized as a miracle among the people in his life.



Two nights before, in the shelter of the cabin that was built with loving hands and gifted to him by the Owl Woman, he had taken the medicine. He took the medicine and he had seen the Christ in the life and suffering and death of the Moth. The moth reached out to him in such a personal way. He saw the face of the great Cat in the moth. He saw the sparkling of the spider’s eyes in the moth. He saw the light change as the life passed from the moth. And then he’d witnessed the resurrection as the moth buzzed in his left hear, the same buzzing that he’d experienced on prior journeys when there were no insects present. 



The man was strongly held by this experience. He was strongly moved inside. He was strongly convinced that his experience was real. The man also possessed one of the greatest gifts of all, the gift of desperation. The man had read once in the Narcotics Anonymous literature that the “desperation would turn into passion for recovery.” The man had already seen this come to pass for himself in the last year of his life which he had spent, in great part, in prayer and meditation. 



The twelfth step came to the forefront of the man’s consciounsness:



“Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these steps, we carried this message to others….”



The man continued to pray as he made himself the passenger of his own life: “God, make me the reader of the Universal Story that is told through me.”



The prayer that he’d prayed as Mark the truck driver droppped him off in Amarillo came to his mind. Mark the truck driver, the one who kept the middle-aged-man listening to song after song in that pure white flat bed semi-tractor. The prayer that he’d prayed after being dropped off by Mark who kept to music flowing was this: “God, show me where to go and how to get there.” Another prayer of desperation. “Ahhhh…the gift of desperation,” said the man out loud.



The third step prayer that he’d memorized at the last treatment facility came to him ,“God, I offer myself to you. Build with me. Do with me as you will. Relieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do your will…”



“your will, not mine, be done.”



All the prayers and all the forms were open to the man now. What once had been taboo to the man, those prayers that seemed to stink of old-time religion and sentiments, they did not scare him any more. The man had transcended his own age of reason. He was walking in what Ken Wilber called the trans-rational. He was walking in the Spirit of integration, that state where life is found in all beings and in all forms, even those forms that were once forsaken in order that the journey into absolute logic and absolute materialism could be taken. Today he was unafraid. He was open. He was willing. He was integrating the forms that he had left behind so many years ago.



The middle-aged-man left the cabin and the crunching graved drive behind. The tires of his trusty blue pony felt the firmness of the blacktop road and they settled in between the yellow lines. It began with two burly, curly-haired, long-horned cattle. One was yellow. The other was black. The man pulled his car over to the side of the road. He was curious about them. He wanted to know the Chris that was in these great creatures, for the Christ had become every “thing” and every “one” to the man. And at that moment the man was very curious about how the Christ would meet him in these two cattle.



The message from F. Scott Fitzgerald, yet another unique manifestation of Christ, rang in his heart’s ears, “There all all kinds of loe in this world but never the same love twice! (exclamation mark mine)” This mantra, a holy scripture written by the Universal Christ in F. Scott Fitzgeral. “Isn’t it so much like that,” said the would-be-writer to himself.



Another song came to him from all those years ago. A sensitive song of surrender:



Reflect in me, Oh God

Reflect in me, Oh God

And when I understand the meaning

Of all the places I have been

Reflect in me, Oh god, once again



The two bulls stared at him. The middle-aged-man took pictures of them to remember this time.





5:50AM

Dream: I am awake and in my current state of thanksgiving, but I live at the hidden village. I sit on the couch. Laura Leigh Stanlake and Mark and Candy come. Their faces are bright. We begin singing “I give myself away. Candy falls right into it as she plays powerful spirit guitar in a way that is beyond comprehension. The music is pwerful and dynamic. Wn’t try ot describe what is beyond words. I give myself away I giv emyself awa. Mark puts his hand on my shoulder. We praise and the colors are bright. Then it is all dark. I am in the hidden village apartment. It is dark. The figures are still there. But it is dark. The figures begin to speak to me in words that are not words. I give myself to the listening. Is it digital? Is it the sound of metal. I do not know. Are these beings. They seem like beings. I alow them to speak. I give myself to them. The one on the side that mark was on no presses his weight inot me. I allow this to happen. I allow it to happen until I cannot comprehend that anything good is possibly happeing here. The weight is on me it is dark. I am now in sleep paralysis. The only thing I know is the hidden village. I cannot possibly know that there is any other place. I get up. It is dark. I know the apartment well. I know where the door is in relation to where I am sitting on the orange couch. I see an instrumen case. It is my bass. The red bass case probably. The door is there. The stairwell is on the right. What’s around the dark corner. My eyes are open. I am in sleep paralysis. I am walking but I know I am not walking. I am struggling againsts the death again. I am struggling against the darkness that was in he ministering presence. I could not percieve any goodness in the way I was held down. I still cannot rmember where I am or that there is another world outside the hidden village. I push myself out of the darkness out of what I know is sleep paralysis. I am awake now at my mothers house in the dark room in the bed that I lay down in just twendy minutes ago. 



So much was in the willingness to turn around that morning. As the little blue car sped down the highway the man saw the orange bull and the black bull and he was curious. There was so much in the curiosity that morning. There was so much in the willingness to turn back. 



The man said goodbye to the Christ in the stalky bulls. He walked back to his car. He drove on.



He came to the sign that signaled the boundary of the land that the government called the Lincoln National Forest (Ahhh…there is my little brother, the libertarian! Welcome little brother!). The middle-aged man stood in front of the thick, brown, wooden sign constructed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, which told the him that he was leaving the Lincoln National Forest. The man took more selfies. He was trying to communicate something to someone. He wanted someone to know that he had been there. The man was involved in some kind of celebration. There was a look of satisfaction in his eyes.



The writer was now thumbing through the middle-aged-mans pictures. The writer could see that the man’s eyes were saying something to him. What were they saying? There was a peace in his eyes, was there not? A satisfaction. Is that what it was. 



The writer had laid down to rest at around 5:30. He prayed, “You write this. You finish this.” He fell asleep and had had a very vivid dream. The dream that was written down previously. It was a dream that seemed beyond a dream. The senses in the dream were beyond dream senses. He was in a different realm. There were other beings communicating with him. He felt sure of it. He did his best to trust these beings, but in the end he forced his way up. In the end he struggled against the darkness.



“Is this what the final pages look like?” the writer thought to himself. Does the dream go into the final draft. He allowed his own agenda to be deconstructed. He allowed the ending to become something different that what he had imagined. He did not know what that would be. 



The writer had begun his acknowledgments earlier in the evening. And he began some sort of introduction. And he imagined himself on a morning show, being interviewed because of the success of his book. He saw it happen and allowed the imagination to be exactly what it was. He surrendered. That is not the spirit that he wanted to end the book with, so he chose something different. He asked the ONE to finish the book for him. And then he fell asleep and communed with three old friends that he may never see again. Three old friends from his days at fullness Christian fellowship.



Laura Leigh and Mark Stanlake had been on his mind recently. 



Day 17

6:33



The writer had left his South-facing station in the mirror at his mother’s house to take a shower. What the writer had not yet shared was that at 5:30, just an hour before, as he lay down to rest, he had masturbated to the sound of his own voice. He was listening to a youtube video of himself. The middle-aged-man masturbated to the sound of his own voice reading from Bruce Sanguin’s book, The way of the wind. The reading went like this:



Under the heading:



“Our spiritual longings drive the evolutionary process”



“There is an ancient Talmudic saying: “Every blade of grass has an angel whispering in its ear… ‘grow, grow, grow,” This diving impterative emanates fro that Mystery and Source religion has called G_d. One of the implictions of this tenet is that to feel this evoutionary current alive within yourself, to hear your own angels whispering in you ear “grow, grow, grow,” and to follow this allurement, is to feel a direct connection with Source. G_d is a sclose as our deepest longings.”



Bruce goes on:



“To listen to and follow the whisper of our holy longings is to allow the originating and ongoing Wholeness or Health (G_d) to live throug us, and as us. As Paul writes in his letter to the Romans, “for we do not know how to pray as we ought, but the Spirit prays us. In this conscious consent to honouring our holy longings as expression sof Spirit, we experience an increasing sense of living from wholeness in our lives. In evolutionary spirituality, allowing ourselves to be transformed by this Wholeness is the deep meaning of salvation.”



How it was that the middle-aged-man came to find his own voice so incredibly arousing that morning he does not know. The F. Scott Fitzgeral quote came back to him now, “There are all kinds of love in this world, but never the same love twice.” The middle-aged-man was not in the least bit aware of anything else that F. Scott Fitzgerald had ever written. As far as the middle-aged-man was concerned this could have been the entire life’s work of F. Scott Fitzgerald. 



Oh, my dear reader, did you expect that we would simply walk happily into the sunset together holding hands. In all honesty, that is kind of how I was feeling this whole thing going! But alas, here we are together again, I in the first person and you, dear reader, along for this ride which you have chosen to accompany me on. If you have read this far, I suppose that there is the possibility that you expected this. Maybe you know me better than I know myself!



Any sense of meaninglessness was far-removed from the writer in this moment. Although, he still kept it in his mind that it may return at any moment. He knew how fragile this sense of meaning could be in his being. 



The writer had begun his work early in the AM (the AM? The great AM!.... now the writer entertains himself). The “great AM) that time of morning that is unsoiled by the shit of the day (Ahhh, the sacred shit that runs through us all as a result of taking in sustenance. The shit cannot be avoided). This is where the writer found himself. In the great AM.



The writer began his work earlier that morning wondering if he was in the home stretch, and it was possible that he was. However, he also wanted to stay true to the genre. No, that is not how the writer had been thinking at all. The writer was merely trying to stay true to the great Process. The writer was allowing himself to stay true to the Self that was finding some kind of transparency, some kind of honesty in and through him. This is what he gave himself to. If a “new genre” is to be created then so be it. He just prayed the prayer, “You finish this project. You finish this.” He turned his awareness inward and asked for the miracle to continue (that’s about the time that he turned himself on), and he did hope that you were able to follow, dear reader, (hell, if you’ve come this far this is not a surprise is it?) but he knew that he really had no control over your response to his behavior whatsoever. Today this writer was willing to go down with his messy ship.



He remembered a text exchange between himself and his brother from a couple of days ago, the day that his father’s trauma had surfaced so violently.



And as the writer unlocked his phone with his thumbprint, he discovered a new message from this brother from last night that he had yet too see. The five messages came in over a period of twenty minutes. They reminded him of the deep illness that his father had been handed down from the generations before him, the illness that the middle-aged-man had been trying, over these last seventeen days to love and embrace.



The messages from his brother sang like this:



Brother: “What the fuck have you been telling dad about me? I got a weird fucking message from him. Please don’t talk to dad about me…or mom for that matter. I promise I will return the favor. Please…I’m begging you. I love you. Just please don’t mention to them the things we talk about.”



The son imagined the suffering that his father must have been enduring over the last several days. He understood what it was like to only have self-justification as a means to relieve the pain. It was true what his brother said, the son had spoken to his father. He’d told him about his desire to not be given advice. He’d spoken to the father about the concept of people sharing experience, strength, and hope with one another instead of advice.



As the brother begged him not to talk about him, the middle-aged-man became acutely aware of how little trust there was in his family. And he understood why. He had recently witnessed (with-nessed) his father turn on him without any provocation whatsoever. His father’s trauma was so deep, his resentment so thick, his anger so strong, that he would attacked even when there was no hint of aggression coming from the outside. His father was being attacked from the inside on a daily basis. His father had been in a state of fight or flight since he was a child, with only short rests perhaps. This was his father’s default mode.



And now the middle-aged-man could palpate that mistrust in his brother’s text. He heard the fear. “Why do we keep doing this?” the middle-aged-man asked himself. “Why do we keep doing this?” the middle aged man asked his deeper Self. 



The son had allowed himself to trust his father again. The son had allowed himself to believe that everything might be okay. The son shared with his father openly. The son had talked with his father about an interaction that he’d had with his brother. The son had not revealed any personal information about the brother. The son had merely talked about a conversation that they’d had in which a boundary had been set. Boundaries were offensive to the father. The father was now using the knowledge he had to make trouble. 



“Maybe this will not be in the final draft,” the writer thought. “This doesn’t see very much like the ‘dying author’ to me,” he thought again.



The middle-aged-man sensed the fear in himself. He sensed the mistrust. He breathed into this moment. A bird made a skittering sound outside the window. He raised the shades to let in some ligh. He communed for a moment with the green bushes and the ground ivy outside the West window. 



It was now 7:35AM on Saturday January fourth in this real-time experiment. The middle-aged-man was scheduled to go with his mother to visit his grandmother on that day at 8:30AM. 



The middle-aged-man was looking forward to seeing his grandmother. He had not truly reconciled with his grandfather before he died. He had not the strength or the wisdom to do so. But today he would hug and kiss hid grandmother, the woman who sang to him when he was a child. The woman who cooked for him and his extended family on holidays. His oldest living ancestor. 



The middle aged man prayed that he would bring peace and love to his grandmother on this day. He prayed that he would bring her respect and honor from the deepest parts of his being.



Dear reader, we approach the baptism still. And still, we approach the mountain. Which is where we shall part ways. I will continue to treasure this communion that I am having with you even as I travel today. I pray for deeper insight into our relationship. I pray for you, dear reader. I pray for your wellness. I pray that I am able to return safely and complete this narration so that it may find its way into your hands and into your heart.



Praise be to the family who suffers. Praise be to the ones who are in need of healing. Blessings upon us all.



Where does the text from brother come in?



Day 17

5:10PM



The writer felt stalled, dear reader. The writer did not know how this project would ever be finished.



On the trip to Kansas with his mother he faced his own trauma. He was haunted by his father and the text that he received. 



The writer felt that he may be swallowed by his trauma that he had somehow revisited on himself in his return to his father’s house.



This is how he had come to interpret the dream of that morning:



Three friendly spirits had come to visit him as he slept. Theese spirit’s joined the man in the song that had delivered him from death on Christmas day. The spirits were telling him that he had gone back to a place of trauma in the past, the hidden village apartments, where he’d lived when his trauma had overtaken him first in his adult life. At the end of the dream the spirits showed him the oppression that he’d submitted himself to in the return that he’d made to his father. The man had stayed “pinned down” by the spirit until he knew that there was nothing good happening. It was then that the man got up and headed toward the door. 



The man wept several times as he sat next to his mother on the car ride home from Kansas. With the woman who knew the father’s abuse as well as anyone else in the world, he was able to express his frustration and anger and sadness that the father would do what he did. He expressed his anger and frustation and sadness that he kept returning to the father. The son felt that he never wanted to return again. “Please, God, don’t make me go back. I don’t want to go back.” The son prayed to God. 



The son felt that he had led himself to the place that scared him with his father for the last time. He knew that he could make no vows. He knew that it was not a vow that this situation required. “Why do I keep going back to that man?” the son questioned himself in the presence of his Mother. 



The previous night, the writer had experienced elation as he felt that he was approaching the end of this writing project. He sensed that the end was in sight. But as he’d received the text from his brother this morning he felt that he had retraumatized himself. His writing, as he was experiencing it now



This is how the text exchange from that morning with his brother had gone:



Brother: what the fuck have you been telling dad about me? I got a weird fucking message from him. Please don’t talk to dad about me or…or mom for that matter. I promise I will return the favor. Please…I’m begging you. I love you. Just please don’t mention to them the things we talk about.



Writer: I did not give away any of your personal information. I spoke of my requst that you not give me advice, as it came up in my conversation with him.



There is understandably a deep lack of trust in our family. It is rooted in our trauma and our shame.



I must be free to share as my Heart leads. And that is what I did. Family comes up when we are talking to family. That is something that is going to happen.



So, I cannot promise that I will never ever mention anything that happens between us. I can however say that it is my intention to never speak poorly of yo or share any personal information that may open you to an attack. And that is exactly how I consciously approached the situation.



I acknowledge the dysfunction iin our family. I acknowledge the fear. I acknowledge the trauma that has come from crippling abuse.



I acknowledge you. I love you. But I will not play these dramatic games with the two of you. That is not something that I am willing to do.



If this is not acceptable to you, then I respect your decisiton if you choose to stop talking to me. But, I must trust my Self with my own speech. I must trust my Self.



I accept you. I love you. This is all I have to say about this right now.



Dad tried to cripple me a couple of days ago. He attacked without provocation. He tried desperately to shame me. That is what he chooses to do. This in what he is trying to bring YOU into. 



My suggestion is that you just let him take care of himself. Just a suggesion. Take it or leave it.



Brother: He’s obviously in one of his shit mood. He mentionned the mushrooms. I figured you told him I was also taking them.



I won’t speak to dad when he gets in these moods.



He didn’t’ ge the information about me doing mushrooms from anyone but you…It’s just none of his business.



Writer: Okay I understand. I must have let something slip. When my heart opens up I say things. Me and the old man were having a moment of peace and I opened up. I believe that it was in the context of you and I reconnecting. I really don’t even remember exactly.



I screwed up here. I am doing my best to walk this walk.



Brother: Just know your fucking audience. To dad, heroine, coke, LSD, mushrooms, are all the same in his mind. He’s an old man, dude. Treat him as such. Cold war…Ronald Reagan…just say no!....Commies…Trump good….Make america great again….fags are ruining our country…global warming is a hoax….That’s dad. That’s your audience when you’re talking to him.



Writer: I truly do not believe that I told him YOU were taking mushrooms. Let me rephrase. It is hard for me to believe that I would tell him that YOU ate mushrooms after all we went through last year when I ahd to apologize to you twice for betraying your trust. That seems like somehting that my common sense would filter from coming through my mouth.



Did I tell him? Is there some specific information that he told you that indicated that for sure I’d told him that YOU were eating mushrooms. If I id, I am truly sorry.



If I did, I must confess that I must have been under the spell of the sickness and dysfunctional control tha is manifest in me as I reapproach my father. Ughh…it truly makes me sick to think that I may have betrayed your trust there.



All of this was bothering the writer who was trying to complete this project



The write rose from his seated position and became a musician? A Levite? He gave praise and thanksgiving with his mandolin. He sang in the presence of the Universal Glow. 





Day18

4:00AM



The writer crawled out from underneath the covers and made his way to the shower. He bathed his body in a natural peppermint soap. He sat on the tile floor, the warm water falling over his body as his crossed legs acted as a natural dam. Raising the dam, he watched the water naturally find its way to the drain. He observed this process several times before standing, and reaching for the spigot (The writer found it noteworthy that the spigot in this shower was the same exact make of the one in his bathroom at the great adobe home in New Mexico).



The water no longer flowing from the shower head, he stood, allowing the drops to naturally drip from his hair and his skin. He reached for the squeegee that hung on the large glass shower partition. He drug the rubber blade horizontally down the full length of the large glass door. He then continued the process with the other half of the thick glass partition.



He exited the shower and took a seat on the closed toilet just outside the thick glass partition. He had not done an exact job with the squeegee, for there still remained water droplets here and there, especially around the door handle where the squeegee could not access fully. As he sat there on the fabric of the toilet seat cover, a single water droplet presented itself to the man. 



He saw a tiny white dot reflected in the water droplet from the bathroom light. The light was so bright it looked like some kind of pure white particulate being held in the form of the droplet. The man noticed that the form of the droplet was distorted by the downward pull of gravity as it was slowly being pulled toward the center of the earth. The droplet did not make its decent all at once though. In fact, at this moment it had stopped completely. 



The man then noticed that every other water droplet also had the same intense white light shining from within its being. The glass shower door was suddenly alive to the man, inhabited by a community of living water. Rivulets of life joined one another in the downward flow as the water so naturally moved toward the center of gravity, mother earth. The man now sat with this scene, his attention on the aliveness of what was happening before him, reminded of the patience that had been manifested in him as he witnessed the death and resurrection of the moth.



He watched as one water droplet made its journey all the way to the base of the shower door and disappeared. Other droplets continued downward, sometimes slightly irregular paths but always, sometimes joining one another, but always in a general downward direction.



The man’s attention was drawn back to the first droplet that had caught his attention. It remained still, seemingly unable to move. “Is it stuck?” the man questioned. “Does it need help?” he wondered. He imagined himself opening the door, for the droplet was on the other side of the door, and sticking out his tongue to absorb the droplet into his own being. He did not want the water droplet to be alone. But he did not do this. He waited patiently for another moment. And another. And another. Until his mind drifted.



His mind drifted to his friend that he’d sat with at IHOP several days ago. He imagined contacting him. He imagined what he would say. “I need to see you?” too needy. “I’d like to see you?” that sounded a little better. “Can I see you again?” that sounded a little bit too romantic for his liking. Then he took another approach. “When I’m with you I feel seen. I’d like to spend some more time with you because I enjoy that experience.” A little wordy. He tried again. “I feel very much like myself when I am with you.” Okay, that was interesting. “When I am with you I feel like I am discovering myself. Can I see you again…soon? Can I see you alone? I’d like to know what it is like to be held by you? Would you please hold me?”



The man’s attention came back to the water droplet that first drew his attention. It was still motionless. But, just then it did move. Just slightly. But it was capable of motion. The man had thought that it would surely just have to evaporate, that it was incapable of continuing its movement toward the center of the earth. There. It moved again.



The man then saw movement in another region of the glass partition. Just inches away there was a great joining of waters and downward flow. It was happening all around. All these minutes after he’d exited the shower and the door was still alive with this movement that he would have usually been so unaware of. But the mushrooms had reminded him of what he could see when he allowed the stillness and the patience to arise from within his being. Because of his relationship with this patience, he was now fully engaged with the life of this water droplet.



It was then that he noticed there was another droplet below the first. The first droplet moved again. It came down several millimeters and then stopped. It moved again. The man now wondered if the two droplets would somehow merge. It seemed possible, although they were directly in line with one another. The first droplet moved again. It began a slow but steady decent. The man wondered what this decent cost the droplet in terms of mass, was it leaving a little bit of itself behind or was it retaining its fullness as it progressed. 



It became evident as the droplet continued that it would merge with the other droplet. It slowly creeped closer and closer, sometimes stopping for a brief moment, sometimes favoring one direction over the other slightly. Closer and closer it came as the man anticipated the moment when the attractive force of the water molecules, which was the cause of the surface tension that caused it to hold form in the first place, would reach out to the other droplet. They came closer still. And finally it happened.



When they joined it was immediate. The mass of the two droplets together was more than the glass door could hold and the droplet rushed without any hesitation downward, disappearing into wherever it was that they disappeared into down there. The man did not bother investigating their final fate. It was out of his hands, very much like when the moth had finally died at the cabin, and the light had changed, and it was finally all over (or so he’d thought). He just left the moth there in the covers to be folded in, eventually turning off the lights and closing his eyes with the expired moth right there in bed with him.



And it was in this way that the writer’s day started.



…





















