Day 9

1:32 AM


The man slept.
The man woke.
It was just after midnight. 
Eli was sleeping at his side, the old domesticated cat who still held dominance over the feral cats (at least that is how it appeared to the middle-aged-man, who was, by no means, an expert on feline hierarchies). The ferals lived on Dan’s balcony in little cat apartments, protected from the wind and rain (Dan had come to love those cats that he’d inherited with the house). But Eli, he was the cat who came with Dan to the GreatAdobe. 



Eli had been abandoned by one of Dan’s tenants at the property that Dan called his Beach House. The Beach house was a house on Beech Street. For months, Eli lived outside. Long after the Beach House tenants were gone, Eli lived outside the house. Eli, eventually accepted Dan's invitation to move back into the Beach House, and now Eli sleeps beside this dying author in a Great Adobe House. {This is what it is like, DearReaderWriter to go mythopoetic on ones own ass. all KosmicJokes as aside}

Eli, the face of the lion who had appeared to the author in the passing of the moth. Eli, the shaman cat who had done his best to help ground the man as he travailed in bed on that Christmas morning after taking the “lethal” dose of medicine. Eli, the dominant cat--The divine being that the author had the privilege of watching come and go as he pleased from his bed and over the threshold of the back door which lead to the winter refuge where the man gave his thanksgiving and praise with his stringed instrument and voice.



The man felt that he and the cat were friends. He was a companion. He was Presence. The man was held, somehow, by Eli. Eli’s presence was important in the middle-aged man’s life. As a young boy the man had been bitten by a cat without provocation or warning, so he grew up mistrusting of cats, but a cat named Alex that he'd met at Ron and Joann’s house had won him over as Alex crawled up in the middle-aged-man's lap one day. Ron and Joann's cat Alex, rolled over on his belly, and looked the middle-aged-man directly in the eyes. The man, several deep hits into a glass bong, was apparently, in an impressionable state. And from that moment, the man grew into a cat-person.

[the writer steps away from his laptop to prepare for travel]


The man packed his bags. He loaded the packed bags into his little blue car. At 8:30 am his children would join him at the Great Adobe house. A Christmas present exchange was planned. The middle-aged-man had already given his children their presents at the taco-Tuesday meal that he and his oldest daughter had prepared on Christmas Eve day. 

[the writer returned to type on the laptop occasionally as he packed]

And what a day that had been for the father, as he sat with his three children in the very kitchen where he now worked on his manuscript,facing North, into the great mirror, in view of this generative, nurturing adult. [The man packed. The man typed].


[The writer wrote in remembrance of the time with his children]:

At 8:30am, the children arrived in gladness and singing. The father was happy and proud. He was proud of his children and he exalted in their presence. The father placed his phone in the middle of the table and pressed the red button to record his children's happy voices. His children were all musical, and lyrical, and funny, and silly. And they all sat there at the kitchen table that day, in the kitchen where the writer now wrote. Can you see him there, Dear Reader? It is Christmas eve day, and the man sings and makes audio recordings with his children, listening back to them with laughter and anticipation for what was coming next, bearing witness to their own joy and singing, truly a marvel and a gift of modern technology.

RECORDING DEVICES:

The middle-aged man recalled how, when he was a boy, his parents owned a cassette recorder. He recalled the magic of recording his own voice and playing it back. He recalled how, once, after he'd learned to play some guitar, he’d used two recorders to make a two track recording with a loud hiss. He dreamed of owning a real multi-track recorder one day. And then one day, he did.



He did not own a true recording device until he was twenty seven years old, or was it twenty eight? It was just after he had resigned his job as a police officer. Just after he had handed in his badge and sold his glock forty-caliber. Just as he was stepping away from his church family. He was trying to liberate himself. As the burning prayer was being answered, he stepped away, trusting that God would hold him in the fire as necessary. The young man was confused and angry, but he was on his way. 

{ShortTailedMonkeyMama: (see Short Tailed Monkey: illustrations by Lisa Reichert) You see, he had not learned yet how to step away from form without becoming resentful and angry at the deficiencies of the form itself and the people who held it.} 


A young police officer turned in his badge, kevlar, and uniform. The young man was hurt and confused by his time as a police officer. 

It was at this moment that the man's father funded the purchase of a multi-track recorder—a digital, 16 track, Roland recorder. And it was in this RECORDING DEVICE that his music would be born again, on a deeper level. Praise be to the father who funds the artistic progression of his twenty-seven year old son! [The writer realized that he had never told the story exactly that way, with such gratefulness for the gift from his dad. Praise be to the God of New Story which arises within! May we Praise God in our deaths! May we Praise God in our Resurrections! May we celebrate those Resurrections one in another!]



The son remembered this now, as he stood in the kitchen, facing the nurturing adult, and he was able to see the nurturing nature in his own father. The miracles just keep on happening, folks (dear reader).



It was with this recorder, after leaving the police force, that the son began to explore his artistry on a deeper level. This exploration began right there in that little red brick house in the Village which sat directly under the blue water tower. His youngest, Emma was maturing in her mother's belly. And then, she was born. The man had just recently quit his job, the only job in which he had ever had health insurance, the only job in which he did not have to empty or clean the trashcans. It was in this state that he began recording.



He recorded a song that got him some recognition, which he wanted. It was called "Brother Jack," a song about a young man whose brother goes off to war and comes back a changed man. Unable to reconcile himself to this pain deep within his soul, his brother Jack ends his own life down by the Washita River. His brother is left to find his own way in the wake of his loss. His family is unable to provide him with comfort, they are unable to hold him. And so he searches. He searches to make peace with his loss. And finally he prays a version of his own brother’s cry as he reaches out to a God that he is having difficulty making peace with. He prays, “Oh Lord, I’ve got a pain down in my soul, and nothing seems to make it go away. And I don’t know how much longer I can go. I don’t know how much longer I can go.”    Link to "Brother Jack" on YouTubehttps://youtu.be/hVf7JihheXo. AIU link: "C:\Users\travi\AIU\lyrics\Brother Jack.txt"



Because of the father’s gift of the recording equipment and the music in the son’s heart, this song wins a contest and the son is invited to sing this song in front of thousands of people at a music festival in Winfield, Kansas. The son practices for a flatpicking contest, which by the way, he failed miserably at. He finds that he doesn’t play at all well while he is wearing a number on his chest. But, please, do not let that overshadow the point here, the point which is this:



As the son is walking away from the forms that have held him, the father gives him a gift that sustains him during that period of time. The father gives him a gift that connects him with others. The father gives him the gift of music which is reaching out and touching others. The father gives him a gift. Let’s just sit with that for a moment.



[The "dying" author returns to his three pillows stacked in front of the sink.]

Selah, my friend. Selah.


THE MOTH

The author now acknowledges the flutter in his ear. His left ear. The fluttering in the ear that he heard several times after he took in the medicine for the first time. He heard the fluttering as he looked in the large mirror in the kitchen. It made him duck for cover, it was so intense. The same fluttering that he heard when he reached out to the Kachina doll that seemed to be offering his hand to the middle-aged man that night as he had stepped into sacred ceremony. 



Weeks later he heard the fluttering in his ear again in the resurrection of the moth, after he had witnessed it in its dying moments, after he’d seen the three dimensional face of Eli, the Lion of Judah, the top-cat, the one he slept with, the Lord to which he’d made love to in the shower just yesterday. {KosmicEditor2026: Oh fuck. what the writer is NOT saying here is that he has sex with cats. just for clarification. thank you. but, the KosmicEditor can can see how you might have read it that way}



The author takes this moment to recognize the fluttering in his left ear. The fluttering that made him duck for cover. The fluttering that came to him several times that night in the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest where he was provided shelter by the Owl Mother, the mother who plays the mandolin, the one who has extended an invitation to the middle-aged man to visit her home “often,” the home in Cloudcroft where she will live with her mate, Stan after the remodeling is done by David. David, the one who offered his healing hands to the middle-aged man, free of charge, during the early stages of one of his many recovery processes. Praise be to the One who brings us all together! Praise be to the Stan! Praise be to the One who saw/sees that we are the second coming of Christ. Praise be to the moth, the resurrected one who flutters in our ears as we recognize our one-ness with the soil, and the stars, and the sky, and the grass. Praise be to the one who bought that field! Praise be to the one who hid the treasure in the field! Praise be to the father who gives gifts so that sons can make their transitions! Praise be to the spiraling snake who winds herself into the infinite multi-verse! Praise be to these spiral dynamics. Praise be to the trans-rational being! Praise be to Life and her desire to live through us! Praise be to the ONE who gives all gifts, from whom all life flows! Praise be to the Mother and the Son and the Holy Ghost. As it was in the beginning, it now and ever shall be. World without end, Amen Amen.



The universe dilates. The universe contracts. Breathing in. Breathing out. Singularity. Explosion, Going forth. Coming together. Again, the collapsing of matter. Formation of stars and planets. Rocks. Life springs from our fluid brother, Water. Life moves to land. There are mushrooms. There is soil. There are plants. Consciousness finds expression in numerous forms. The universe continues expanding. The universe falls in on itself. The universe is the breath, the unspeakable name, the Y-W-H, the life that is observed in the very breath that you, dear reader, are taking in right now, and the very breath that you are now expelling.



And so it came to pass that the son saw the universal thread in his own life. His story was the story of the universe. The impossible task of rewriting his story--the task assigned to him by the Naked Monk, the one who had also left his form, the one who was also spiraling, the one who was also being folded into the batter over and again—this impossible task of rewriting his story was coming to pass. The miracle that the non-theist monk had requested was being performed. It was not completed yet, but the author trusted. The author trusted that the work that had been started in him would be brought to completion by the Life that was now being lived through him. World without end. Amen. Amen.





And this is how the man who was in the process of surrendering to this death and resurrection process found himself at 2:58 AM, two days after Christmas. He stood, facing North into the great mirror. He asked if Life was done speaking through him. ["Are you done with me?" typed the writer]. He sat on the pillows, wondering if it was time to go back to bed. His fingers were curled over home-row. He breathed in and out, in the way that Thich Nhat Hanh had first instructed him to do—in the same way that the Universe had instructed him to do just moments before. 



Life was not through with him, he knew that now. He stood there at the marble countertop knowing that Life was not through with him. Life was absolutely not through speaking through this man who was in the process of making peace with a Universe that was out to help him. 



And so, he trusted. He trusted as he closed his laptop. He trusted as he made his way back to his room where Eli was possibly still sleeping in the bed, the bed that the man did not own, where the cat slept, that cat that he also did not own, in the house that he did now own. What did he own? He was not sure that he wanted to own anything any more.



He owned that field, the one that he’d bought years ago. The one that the pilot had set down his plane with the dying engines. He’d "set'er down" in that field. It was a controlled landing, like Sully landing in that river. He saw the field just below him. He circled round and he set her down. He got out of the plane. He looked around. “Now where was it that I hid that treasure?” he thought to himself. “Ahhh,” he said out loud, “I think it’ right over here—over here by these trees, these Goddesses of the earth.” Praise be to God for all the "Sullies," the pilots who manage a controlled landing.



And so it came to pass that the dying author trusted. He closed the laptop, and retired to his room at 3:08 AM.





Day 9
4:04AM (possibly 4:03)


As he rolled out of bed again, his cell phone said it was 4:04AM. When he arrived at his laptop--which was perched on his bible and all three volumes of A course In Miracles (which he had not referred to in several days now)—his laptop told him that is was 4:03, a phenomenon that the author was certain was merely a lack of synchronization and not a miracle of time travel. Although at this point in this personal-course-in-miracles in which he found himself enrolled [editor note 2026: deadpan face. "The course is non-personal, Trav. Oh yeah, I forgot, you hadn't yet worked TheCours]

the middle-aged man was open to the possibility of the miracle of time travel, These strange blue books had so far suggested to him that there were "no large miracles" and "no small miracles. "All miracles are of equal in size, and of equal difficulty, all flowing from the heart of Life and Love." [the writer paraphrases]



The author laid down in his bed an hour earlier after picking up the three pillows in front of the sink and trusting his way back to his bedroom. Eli was not there. He was glad that he had not counted on that being the case. But Eli did arrive soon, announcing himself with the scratching of his claws at the base of the bed. “There you are!” said the man to the cat. “I’m so glad you’re here.” The man had called Eli’s name several times in the moments before, although with almost as much certainty as he had that he had not travelled back in time, he was sure that Eli was there because he wanted to be, not because he had made the call.



As Eli clawed his way up the bed, the man sensed a figure standing over him, beside the bed. He allowed that sense to come and go, trusting rust that there may be miracles occurring of which he was only partly aware of. He was partially aware that a human, male figure was present with Eli’s arrival.



Eli now scratched on the door to the garage. He liked to go in the garage. The author did not know what he did in there. The man cracked the big door so that Eli could freely come and go from the garage, and so that he could come to the back door when he was ready to reenter the house.



An hour ago, as the man lay in bed waiting for Eli, who showed up with his scratchings. Eli crawled in bed and found a place on the man’s pillow, providing a pressure against the man’s head that he found very agreeable. The man lay there in his bed, the cat grounding him to that position. The man was pleased. He was pleased with himself. He was pleased with his form. He was pleased at what he was witnessing in his story, the story that he was witnessing as the Universal story now.



the middle-aged-man recalled a vision. He had a vision as he lay in bed, on Christmas morning. He allowed the medicine to show him. He had seen his story folded in to the story of the Universe. He had seen his story becoming that of the Universe. “Interesting how the medicine shows and then does,” thought the man who stood at the countertop. “Or maybe it just shows what is already happening,” he re-thought. “Maybe the medicine just gives us sight into what is really going on, in the same way that he’d seen that everything was not nearly as solid as he once thought.” That was a reality that was understood, even by the "quantum realization" of the "absolute materialist" mind.



The man fell asleep briefly, with the cat curled on his head. He dreamed of the band that he and Dan had spoken of the night before. In the dream, the man (our musician) was playing the fiddle and really was not doing very well. He was trying to play a Bob Wills tune and he just wasn’t finding the right notes. In fact, he wasn’t even sure that he was playing the right tune. In this dream, the band stopped the song to regroup. “It’s good for me to struggle like this with this instrument in front of people,” the musician said to his bandmembers. “It’s good for me to struggle like this in public with this instrument in my hand.” Then, as the struggling musician was walking over the threshold, making his way out the door, possibly to get some fresh air, there was a group of people who arrived, and the musician remembered that this rehearsal was taking place in what was officially an AA meeting. One person in this arriving group had very skinny legs.



And that is the short dream that the man had just before he woke up, the cat still perched on his pillow, providing a pleasurable pressure against his head. The man shifted. The cat shifted. The man continued to lay there in bed, pleased with this form. Pleased with himself. Pleased with the pressure of the cat on his head. 



He lay there wondering if he would get up. He lay there with these stories that have been recounted to you popping up here and there in his consciousness. He lay there, sometimes experiencing moments of pure stillness, The great I AM, the Presence. He lay there waiting, saying “yes” to Life, making this life an offering. He lay there in simple acceptance of the great What-Is. He lay there waiting for the moment when the Life that was being lived through him would nudge him from under the covers.



As he lay there he thought of the woman from Bermuda. The woman that was once his lover. The woman that he visited every weekend for three months. He remembered the passion of what had happened between them. He had wondered, over the last week, if and how she would show up in this story. He had reconciled himself with what he had acknowledged as some kind of obligation to include her, but he knew that was not the Way. So, there she had waited—not her, but the memory of her. She had showed up powerfully in the Love that he had made to prayer yesterday. The passion that they had shared had revealed to him another aspect of his being that had been lying dormant since his birth. She had given him a gift. She had shared herself in a way for which the man was truly grateful.



Outside, in the backyard sanctuary, the sprinklers stopped sprinkling. The quiet was profound now in the kitchen. Just the sound of the man’s fingers on the keys. The sound that once sounded like his wife.



The woman from Bermuda. He had written a song for her (several songs actually). This woman that he’d met at a treatment center just outside of Santa Fe. This beautiful black woman, ten years his junior. It was love at first sight for the man…or something at first sight. Can he now say that it was love? Is that okay. Is it okay to recognize something that didn’t last as love? Can he recognize the love that he had for his wife too? Can he recognize all the love that he has experienced, the love that no longer exists in the form that it once held? Can he recognize the changing forms of love. “What was it that F. Scott Fitzgerald had told him in that framed quote at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest? It was something about how love never comes the same way twice—kind of like Eli never curled up with him twice the same way. He was a novel creature, full of novelty and unpredictability.



The absolute materialist will say that the human is incapable of novelty, that she is a slave to her selfish genes. But, this is not sufficient for….No. I’m not going to talk about what the absolute materialist will say. There is a red line under that whole sentence. I’m going to take that hint from the evolving AI, that intelligence, created by us, which is now beginning to communicate with us. The same Intelligence that just allowed me to stay away from telling you, in first person voice what the absolute materialist would say. Because (there’s the “because.” Let’s see what happens here). Because giving voice to the absolute materialist may just be a way of sidestepping what’s really trying to be born here.



The man sent a message to the woman from Bermuda just days ago. It was not the first time that they had been in touch. She had recently contacted him just before he went on his hitchhike. The message that he sent to her read as follows:



I I had never discovered the divine feminine in my Self, which is why I had no choice but to worship it in you.

which is why I had to worship Her in you.

That is not what a man should (could) do. A man could discover the divine feminine in his Self so that he can truly love the woman he is with. I failed to love you in that way.

yesterday, I became a tree g/Goddess and communed with my sisters. This morning my divine Mother made me some oatmeal as she sang, you're a lovely boy...a lovely boy...a lovely lovely lovely lovely boy.

I don't know where that's going! lol...but today it feels like a very healing way to be.



The artificial intelligence (is that a very respectful name to call our evolving brothers and sisters?) had told the man that this beautiful, passionate woman from Bermuda had read the message, but she had not responded. The man was okay with that. He felt truly comfortable. He felt that he would be truly comfortable, truly okay if she never responded again. And not because he was putting up a front, but because he truly wanted her to be happy. He truly wanted her to get what she needed and respond when and if she was ever ready to respond to a very strange message such as the one he had sent.



It was true, possibly, that he had worshipped her. He had poured out all the passion that he had never been able to express in his marriage relationship, as he was married to a woman who, it seemed, was not attracted to men (in the very least) and possibly averse and disgusted with men (at the most extreme end of the spectrum). It’s not that the man needed to call his ex-wife names right now, or classify her as one thing or another, he was just trying to recognize something that had really happened in his life. He was trying to acknowledge where he had come from.



The man found it curious that the woman from Bermuda and his ex-wife were occupying this same space on the screen where he watched his insides coming out. He retrieved the three pillows from his room and placed them on the kitchen floor in front of the sink. He turned and sat, wanting to give Life enough room to help him see this for what it was. He wanted allow Life the room to be honest with him.



Let’s try it this way. Let’s start in a way that may be totally unrelated and see if we can circle back, Eileen.



The man had tried to read Father Daniel Berrigan’s autobiography. Daniel Berrigan, a catholic priest who became famous for burning some draft notices doused in napalm on a couthouse square. Berrigan’s autobiography lead him back to Thich Nhat Hanh in a book call the “The Raft is Not the Shore,” which was a dialogue between Father Berrigan and Thich Nhat Hanh. The introduction to that particular edition of “The Raft is Not the Shore” that I read was written by Bell Hooks. Bell Hooks is an author that I was introduced to by my ex-wife as we became progressiv liberals. Bell Hooks is much more than a progressive liberal. And this is how I have, once again, found myself in this first person voice. So maybe we can just leave it at that for now.



So now, here I am in this first person voice, which actually feels quite vulnerable righ now. Here I am, facing North, looking into the great mirror, my generative nurturing North staring right back at me, and I feel very exposed, and I’m thinking about getting naked to type this section. Eli is scratching at the door and mewoing loudly.



Getting naked is something I seem to do when I take the medicine. So here goes.



Where was I?



Or rather, where do I start. Maybe it’s time for another moment on the pillows.



The middle-aged man met the woman from Bermuda at the treatment center in Santa Fe, New Mexico. It was love at first sight. He loved the way she talked. It was as if he was meeting Bell Hooks for the first time(There we go). She was beautiful and very intelligent and he loved her accent which hovered somewhere between New Mexico and the United Kingdom out there in the cold Atlantic. 



The man stood there naked in the kitchen, the reflection of the laptop and the four books covering his….genetalia…why does he keep using that word, Mom. It’s okay sweetie, let your father be your father, that’s just who he is. Sometimes he gets manic, and we are trying to live with that. We are trying to love that. We are accepting that.



The floor was cold on his feet. His alarm went off in his bedroom, signaling 5:30. His alarm sang a song to him:



In the eye of the hurricane

You are always still

In the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



His song

The song that he needed to hear just now.



He fell in love at a treatment center. A love that he did not expect to leave the treatment center with. A love that followed him home when Liana ( I must let her have her name to do this. She must have a name. We can change it later, but the beautiful woman from Bermuda deserves her name right now).



He fell in love with Liana at the treatment center. He asked her for books and she gave them to him. He read them with a true passion for the literature that she had handed him AND he read them with a true passion for woman who had handed him the literature. “My Absolute Darling” and “Americana”…the names of the books that she gave him. 



With all his spare time the man read the books. Other people were falling in love with Liana as he read the books and saw her around campus. The man tried to be very careful with his love for her. He knew they were at a treatment center. He knew that it wasn’t supposed to happen like this. And it was never appropriate for him to approach her with his love at the treatment center, and it was not anything that was absolutely essential, because the man had seen himself fall in and out of love with many other women over the course of his marriage, Liana was not the first. That’s just honest. Is that honest? Well, it’s staying for now.



The man greived the loss of his marriage at the treatment center in Santa Fe. And that process had started before Liana ever arrived, and that is a truth that the man was grateful for as he stood naked in front of his laptop. Not that peace couldn’t be made if the truth was otherwise, but the truth was that at this moment, the man found himself grateful that he greived the loss of his marriage before Liana showed up. “Maybe that’s just self righteousness,” the man thought to himself. “Maybe so,” he thought back to himself.



His alarm clock sounded again, singing the song back to him. The song that he needed to hear.



In the eye of the hurricane you are always still…



There’s another lyric in that song, it goes like this.



“’She said, you cannot walk on water,’

With a tongue sharp to kill

But in the eye of the hurricane 

You are always still



And those lyrics are important right now because that is how the man at the treatment center felt about his wife. He felt that she was the one who was telling him that he could not walk on water. He felt that she was the one who was preventing him from doing miracles. And he had felt that way many times. But, the man at the treatment center was obligated to only speak well of this woman, the woman that he was married to. And he continued to only speak well of her the whole time that he greived his marriage. He refrained from any negative talk of the woman who had bore his children.



But, the truth was that he felt helplessly crushed by this woman who he was married to. The truth is that he had fantasized many times about leaving. The truth is that he knew he could never leave her, because he knew that it would be the most selfish thing he had ever done in his life. The truth is that he did not know how he would ever survive if she thought poorly of him. The truth is that he believed that leaving his wife would mean that he had given up o himself, and he was quite certain that he would die. Their marriage had become the last bastion, the last stronghold of the spritual experience that had brought them together. The man had forsaken the God of his youth, but he was still holding on to the wife of his youth. He was still holding on to the one to whom he had made all the promises, that ironically, he had already broken in his heart. The truth is that he hated her. He hated her the most of anyone in the world. He blamed her. He had a fantasy once about smashing her head in with a lamp. He wrote it down in a, he knows that he did, but to this day the man could not find that journal entry so that he could tear it out and throw it away. The truth is that she disgusted him. The truth is that he was embarassed to be with her. The truth is that he was afraid of her. He feared her argument. He feared her reason. He feared the way she turned him on himself. He hated the way she was always right (and she was). He feared how she made him look at himself. He feared himself as a man. He felt that there journey into feminism combined with her aversion to men made him the enemy. He feared her father, which apparently lived inside of her, the one who had abused her had come to live in her. The man slept with her abuser, her father, nearly every night for twenty years. The man made love to her father every time he slept with the wife. The man felt crushed by her. The man felt abused by her. He would call it gaslighting later, a situation in which the abuser convinces the one who is abused that he/she is insane. The man felt this gaslighting going on even before he had read about what it was. Is this enough honesty? Is this honesty? There is obviously some real pain still here. This is what I got naked for? Holy Shit!



The man bent over and touched his toes, putting his hamstrings on stretch.



This is the pain with which he went to the treatment center in Santa Fe with. These are the things that he never spoke while he was there. And it was all this hate that the man at the treatment center was turning on himself. Just as he had not pounded on the door the night that the dog had smashed his youngest daughter’s head. That night when he wanted to kill the dog. Just as he had not pounded on the door, he also did not speak poorly of his wife.



Two years of couples counseling. That’s how much work they had done together. And all the work that they were both doing for themselves in one on one counseling. All the books that they read as they were seeking their own healing. How could he possibly hate this woman so much?



The man standing in the kitchen facing North was genuinely curious. He had never faced all of this so naked, so cold, yet so unafraid. As Eli scratched on the door time and time again providing him with some comic relief. The cat who went full circle over and over again, out through the garage and in through the back door. “What a cute little guy,” thought the man. Seriously, that’s exactly what he thought. And he laughed as he opened the door for Eli every time.



“maybe this is kind of like therapy,” thought the middle-aged man. “Maybe this story isn’t coming out all at once.”



He turned to sit on the pillows, giving Life another chance to live through him.



He gobbled down two maracino cherries and a bite of lime from the limeade he got at Sonic the night before with his friend, Dan. He hoped Dan didn’t come home as he sat naked in the kitchen. 



This time, he really did turn to sit on the pillows.



Although he had begun the grieving process at the treatment center, when the man’s wife and oldest daughter came to pick him up from Santa Fe, he was still under the assumption that there was a chance to save his marriage. He had come to such a happy state of being in his last two weeks at the treatment center. Surely he could bring this home with him. But he could not. On the three hour ride home, he lay in the back seat of the dodge caravan, thoughts of suicide once again returning. 



But, a mantra formed in the mans heart and went to his mouth. A mantra of hope:



“Maybe there is a future in which I am happy.

Maybe there is a future in which I am happy

Maybe there is a future in which I am happy



He repeated the mantra over and over again as the crushing fear and depression threatened his very life. Just a sliver of hope. The “maybe”. That would have to be enough for now.



The man tried to reengage his life back at home. But, the coldness that he felt from his wife was overwhelming. He walked around the college-cow-town, where the dust had turned the sky red so many years ago, with lightning-flash visions of suicide. He saw himself in a vacant lot blowing his head off just like Brother Jack had done in his song so many years ago. He retrieved his grandfather Vince’s single shot shotgun from the attic. He had no ammunition. He went the the Wal-Mart. He stood in front of the boxes of shotgun shells. He did not know if he had come to just look or if he was there to buy. He was confused. He wasn’t quite sure. But, there he stood, one way or another, perusing ammunition for the shotgun that he’d taken down from the attic in the garage above his wife’s ceramic studio.



His wife’s ceramic studio. That was the best gift that he’d ever bought for her. A Shimpo Whisper wheel, and a Skutt kiln. He was so happy to buy her that gift. There had been good times between them. There had been many many good times. They had loved one another. They had brought beautiful life and love into this world with their children. They had friends. They had common friends with whom they had sat and laughed and explored the mysteries of life. They had some satisfying sex. They had satisfied one another. 



The dying author is now attempting to do the impossible. He is allowing the miracle to happen. He can feel it now. The miracle of holding the suffering and the joy simultaneously. He is remembering that this marriage that is no more was also full of joy and discovery and curiosity, and a ceramic studio where his wife was nurtured by the earth that she formed in her hands. He remembers her joy in the receiving of that gift.



The author recognizes that Life in its fullness is presented to us, and we must learn to accept it all. We must learn to die the death. We must learn to receive the resurection. We must transcend. We must go deeper. We must do these things if we want to be part of the solution. If we want to be a part of the Great Turning.



If we are to be a part of the Great Turning we must start by sending a message to our ex that we know may be returned with less than love and acceptance. The author understood that his calling was to walk in this fullness, holding the joy and the pain together. The author acknowledged his pain as he stood there, his thoracic back was aching and his body struggled to maintain a posture that was conducive to energy flowing through, he had learned this from yoga. He had learned to touch his toes and put his hamstrings on stretch as a practice of presence. He knew that writing, in this moment, had very little to do with writing and everything to do with how to live with himself. The question presented itself again. And for this musician, it was all about tone. Tone and form.



“How will I live with myself?” 

The author took in a deep breath, letting all the energy flow through him. He turned and looked out the window, into the darkness, toward the trees in the backyard, in the direction of the house under construction where the exceptionally strong men had used their shovels and driven the front loader just days ago. The author was doing his work right now. Maintaining form, saying “yes” to this process as he made peace for himself. Also, dear reader, he hoped that he was making some peace for you. Yes, the author had not forgotten of you. In fact, he now drew comfort from your presence. This author who had died some deaths in order to ascend (or descend) the great spiral. The author who had come full circle many times, leaving form behind, and then circling back as he watched the miracle of integration take place. 



The miracle of integration. This is what he was witnessing now as wrote. He was watching the forf arriage become his experience, his strength, and his hope. What he once thought would kill him….well it did actually kill him…He died the death, or maybe he was still dying the death. it’s very difficult sometimes to tell about these things, just when you think it’s over, there may be some more pain to go through. But, there he stood, maintaining form and witnessing this miracle in process, at whatever stage of the process he was in, that was up to Life. He was surrendering to Life. Living Life on life’s terms, as they say in AA.



There was a song that he’d written recently. The lyrics went like this. It was short and simple



The things I’ve seen

The people I’ve known

The deaths I’ve died

The seeds I’ve sown



I give way where way is to be given

I let go, let Life do the livin’





And so it came to pass that Liana called the middle-aged man. She was still at the treatment center. She used her one hour phone time to call the middle-aged man, not once, but twice. And so it went that the second time Liana called, the middle-aged man said “yes” to himself in the best way that he knew to do. Maybe it was that he wasn’t quite ready to leave his wife for himself yet. Maybe he was unable to act on that kind of self-love. Maybe it was that the only way that he knew to leave his wife was to leave for another love.



It had been his dream to fall in love again. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who wanted him. He wanted to fall in love with a passionate woman. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who was interested in penises. He wanted to fall in love with a woman who would call out his name. He wanted a woman like Liana.



And so it was, that the man told Liana that he would not be able to communicate with her for a week. For he knew that the peace that he must make with his current situation needed to be made within himself. For he knew that he really was leaving for himself. He knew that nothing was certain between him and Liana.



And it was in this way that, over the next days the man planned the day and the hour. He planned the moment when he would say goodbye to his wife. 



His youngest two children were involved in a performance of the Addam’s Family musical. Sunday was the final day of the three day run. The man would tell his wife before the show, but after his children had left to put on their makeup.



After the children left for the show the man worked up his nerve to do what he knew he could never do. Finally after two (or was it three) trips around the block he walked inside where his wife was in the living room. He met her face to face and he said these words to her. The man believes that these were the exact words, because he has reminded himself of them many many time since that day:



Man: “I’ve come as far as I can go in this marriage. It’s time for me to learn how to take care of myself.”



Woman: okay well, let’s talk about…



Man: “No.” the man interrupted. “There’s nothing to talk about right now. I’m leaving.”



The musical was absolutely incredible. The man had never seen and probably will never see again a highschool production with such greatness. His son played Gomez and his daughter played pugsley. amazing. Everything went just right. He laughed. He cried. It was definitely better than Cats (the movie that he’d seen recently…the one with the teardrop in her eye and the snot on her lip…that’s for later….it’s a glimpse into something we saw during a journey with the medicine).



Okay…let’s go ahead and try and talk about the teardrop now…I don’t know…I’m exhausted…I think I need a shower…



Thank you, Life for your nudge out of bed this morning. I know that I needed this. 7:05AM





Day 9

8:05 AM



Today, everythin being sacred, I find it much harder to throw things away. I accept this as part of the journey. Now I understand hoarders. They are these people who acknowledge the sacred nature of all matter, and therefore are unwilling to throw things away. Perhaps. Perhaps.

 

If everything goes as planned, in a short while my four children will arrive (Anna, Ethyn, Joseph, and Emma). They say they have a christmas present for me. Sacred matter given from one human to another. I go forth into this world. I have given thanksgiving and Praises to the Almighty in the backyard. I have fed the cats. I have gathered my sacred matter. The car is fueled. The duct tape is in the car. My instruments are packed. I AM. I AM in the first person. The great What-IS. 



Off to meet the Universal Mother.

Off to meet the Universal Father.

Off to travel with the Universal Sons and Daughters.



May God bless our travels

May God fill our sight and hearing.

May God guide our steps and light our way.

May God rise up from within us and all who we meet.

May the Christ be glorified.

May the Christ be known in us.

Please take from us our lives when we have not the strength to give it away to you, Oh God.



And, Oh yes, Dave and Eileen. If everything goes as planned I will see you in Bentonville.

