Day 5

7:00 AM



To be or not to be...I just got that

That truly is the question



Right now...today

will you be?



Will you allow yourself to be?

To percolate?





underneath, 

the fire is burning



The container has integrity

You are the fluid contents



How fluid are you?

Just as fluid as you need to be



Just as fluid as the ONE

poured out

as an offering



“My mom made me oatmeal this morning!” sang a little boy. “My mom made me oatmeal this morning and she sang to me! She sang, “Your’e a lovely, lovely, lovely, boy.”



The writer was having these types of intimate experiences with himself as he allowed this fluidity to become him.



Day5

7:43 PM



The dying-author returned to his work.



He sat on his bed. He was supported by three pillows as he sat in the half-lotus position, spine moderately erect, shoulders slightly back, soft tiger blanket (a gift from emma) over his legs and feet, chromebook resting on the milk carton he’d used days ago on the bathroom floor. A pink towel served as a cushion between the milk-carton and the chromebook.



He described his sitting position in great detail in order to come to terms with exactly where he was in that moment. His attention to detail was an attempt to allow himself to be right here. He had learned of Ram Daas’ death today, not to say that it had affected him emotionally in any way that he could detect, he only mentioned it as a way of acknowledging a thought that had passed through his mind. “As a point of devotion to all wisdom and Life, it may be appropriate to acknowledge the passing of a great teacher.” He acknowledged to himself and to his audience that a powerful being had, just today, left his body.



By email , his friend, Brooks, had informed him of Ram Daas’ passing earlier in the day. Ram was Brook’s teacher. The dying author had yet to recognize Brooks loss. He wondered if it might be appropriate to do so. He opened his gmail tab with the intention of emailing his friend Brooks.



Brooks,



I acknowledge the passing of your teacher.

I acknowledge your loss



I read a story once about how Ram used to just look at people, meet the gaze of the "other," without words for minutes at a time. It was described as a genuine expression of being, an act that had the power to deconstruct the ego, to lay the dear soul (whoever that may be) bare. 



Right now that reminds me of the quiet moments that you and I have shared together.



Namaste

Travis



The middle-aged man practiced self-care for most of the day.



He awoke early and gave himself a bath. He simply acknowledged what-was. He acknowledged the tenderness of what had happened in his being the day before, the rising of the feminine within him. He acknowledged the miracle of being. The miracle of awareness of his own presence. He breathed, acknowledging the presence of the I AM that he was. As he bathed, he remembered his own recent baptisms, there’d been three of them recently. 



He agreed to another baptism in his warm bathwater this morning, recommitting himself to the process that he was in. Giving himself to every ceremony of initiation that Life had to offer. He said “yes” to his feminine nature. He said yes to the spirit of the tree Goddess within him. He said “yes” to the very, very strong and disciplined man that he was. He said yes to the Christ, the strong disciplined man with the compassionate feminine soul. (The man nodded in his heart to another one of his teachers, Richard Rohr for helping him to see this feminine Christ). [see Center for Action and Contemplation. the writer had never been there or met Richard Rohr except through Richard's writings]. 



After he dried himself off he wrote these words on the thick, white, watercolor paper where the blue snake now lived, the snake that went all the way from the bottom to the top, the snake whose nose flipped up. 



You cannot

leave the path



You have never

left the path



There is no

path



The path

is illusion



You wait

at the crossroads



the non-path

presents itself



The path

Is binary



Even if you take

the Road less traveled



You are still 

on the path



which is

All

Part

Of

the 

Illusion



The thick piece of watercolor paper where the blue snake lived had begun to serve as a to-do list for his writing project. By the way, Ken Wilbur had finally weighed in, the upper left quadrant represented the interior of the individual, which made sense to the dying author in light of his relationship to the Snake. The individual interior containing all emotions, symbols, and concepts. Praise be to the blue snake with the flipped up nose. {Kosmic Note: Praise be to the great Father of us all, as he helped us with Ken Wilbur's work. Transcend & integrateYo! Die and be Reborn: see Don and Lori Chafer, "You Were At The Time For Love"}



The dying author ventured out for a walk with the sunrise. He crunched through the golden, frozen grass in his brown, leather, slip-on loafers. He walked on the smooth dirt path through the arching evergreens where the hard blue seeds were scattered. He kicked off his loafers. He reached up with outstretched arms, grasping a sturdy tree branch in either hand.

 

The middle-aged-man stood there in the crucifixion position, supported by the trees, acknowledging how Christ had been supported by a tree as he experienced his final ego-dissolution process “It would take the strength of the tree Goddess to support something like that,” said the man to himself. 



The Christ man with the feminine nature in him, supported by the strong form of the tree. The dying author was not trying to create any kind of doctrine in this moment, merely experiencing the meaning of it all as it appeared to him (Praise be to fluidity and the passing stories that come and go with the evolution of consciousness!). He released the evergreens from his grasp, slipped his shoes back on, and continued down the path where he came to a fork, a binary, a crossroads. 



And so, he stopped.



He stood right there in that place where he could either go left or right. He waited. This fork was the physical manifestation of what he’d been writing about. It had unexpectedly come to greet him on his morning walk with the sunrise (Praise be to the binary fork that offers us the non-path). [He waited. Acknowledging. Accepting. Experiencing the moment for exactly what it had to offer. He sensed into his body and all that was. He allowed his thoughts to pass before him, nodding to his vipassana practice, Just as the writer now did now in the typing of the words] (Praise be to the Word of words, which can only point to the slivered moon!).



At this crossroads, he gave space for the creative miracle to arise from within. He sensed again a powerful presence of the feminine within him. He allowed his legs to become a slightly twisted trunk. His hands now slender branches, reach up to the sky, and caress the blueness and the morning cold.



Now he embodies the spirit of one who was once called “witch.” {Brujas in the Canyon!} those pagan women who went to the forest to walk barefoot and experience nature without any barrier, walking in the brown grass and the green alike. He felt her. He felt her making love to this moment. He took off his shoes and held them in one hand as he began walking barefoot, slowly, through the thick, golden, winter grass. His legs crossed over midline as he slowly placed one in front of the other, which resulted in him being more fully aware of his hips and the diminished space between his legs. 



[“Whether I look like a woman from the outside or not, right now. I certainly feel like one,” thought the middle aged man. The man tried to let the mental image of “woman” go. He allowed the energy of that mental image of “woman” to pass through.] 



Now he was empowered to simply feel his body, just the physical senses. He walked with this fairy of the forest until his feet got very cold. He quickly slid his shoes on and continued his walk with the sunrise. As he faced East, the sky was deep orange. He made his way through the South gate toward the front of the house. 



The moon was just a sliver in the sky. He greeted the moon “Thank you for your presence, dear moon,” said the Goddess. She greeted the sun into the world. She thanked the glowing orb for the warmth it had provided the day before as she enjoyed the backyard in such a touching and personal healing ceremony with the medicine. “Peace be to you, Sun. Thank you for your presence. Thank you for your warmth. Thank you for your light. I give praise to you, and to the Mother and Father, and to all the faces of God who have gifted me with this sunrise. Praise be to the LSD and please God, bless the hands that prepared it.” And so it was that the Goddess gave thanks for the medicine and and for the new day into which She had bee born.



Passing through the threshold of the backdoor which had been open for hours yesterday, he felt the feminine with him still. She was Mother. 



“Can I make you some oatmeal?” she said to a small boy who had just arrived, a boy who welcomed his Mother’s presence. He longed to be cared for.



“Yes, please,” said the boy. 

“You like it with apples and cinnamon don’t you?” she said.



“Yes, I do. Thank you.” he replied.



And so it came to pass that the Mother made oatmeal for the boy. Praise be to the Great Mother Spirit. Praise be to the Goddess of the trees! Praise be to the witches of the fields and forest, those fairy nymphs that were crucified in the name of the Christ! Praise be to their dear souls who died in the presence of their Great Mother.



Arise! Arise! Allow yourself to be mothered

Let the feminine come forth to mother the world.



It was in this way that the man began to do many practical things around the house, self-care activities with the help and guidance of his mother, this lovely feminine spirit that he’d invited into his being jus the day before, as he quivered with ecstasy in the back yard. Those other strong men were working just through the evergreens. The Goddess made peace with her son that day, and she came to inhabit his being and guide him in the ways of the great Earth! Praise be to all the medicines! Praise be the wisdom that the medicine helps us to access from within!



The middle-aged man allowed this spirit to help him with the laundry. He paid an overdue bill that he’d discovered when checking his email spam box (which was a lengthy task he did not believe he could have done without his mother). He straightened and cleaned the kitchen. He listened to the highwomen, a country music quartet who had rewritten that song , the highway men, made famous by Waylon Jennings, and Kris Kristoferson, and Willie, and Johnny.



He read an excerpt from Eileen’s book, Tear drops of rain. The spirit of Life in her book helped him to see that it was perfectly reasonable for the rational mind to seek a relationship with the beautiful heart. He allowed his rational mind to observe the beautiful, beautiful heart that had made itself manifest in his/her being. Praise be to the age of reason! Praise be to the enlightenment! Praise be to the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Praise be to the snake who circles back and circles back again. Praise be to the man with a lovely feminine heart!



And so it was that the dying author saw another miracle come to pass for himself and all who share in this moment with him. Amen



Now the dying author sat with a task in front of him. How would he speak of the conversation with his brother?



No. Not yet. It is not time. It is not safe enough yet. There is a tenderness now. Can we please stay with the tenderness?



The dying author wondered what it meant to have God as a lover. Hafiz and Rumi, they had apparently had this experience. And the dying author had wondered for quite some time, what this really meant. There had been times when he felt that he knew, but most of his life had not been spent in the presence of God as lover.



Like a Life Giving Sun



You could become a great horseman

And help to free yourself and this world



Though only if you and prayer become sweet

Lovers



It is a naive man who thinks we are not

Engaged in a fierce battle



For I see and hear brave foot soldiers

All around me going mad



Falling on the ground in excruciating pain

You could become a victorious horseman



And carry your heart through this world

Like a life-giving sun



Though only if you and God become sweet

Lovers

Hafiz



And so it came to pass that the dying author, once again, invited God to make love to him. And so it came to pass that the man fell to his knees and asked God to come inside of him. And on this day the man did feel that love in his genitals. 
daughter voice: “He’s using that word again, mom." 
Mom: "I know sweetie. It’s okay. We’re not taking any of this too seriously, are we?" 



And so it came to pass that He went to see a movie with his lover afterwards. The movie version of the broadway musical, Cats, which the man thought was a delightfully gay thing to do. He and his lover had the theater to himself. The man stretched out on the seats, fell asleep, and left half way through, almost exactly like a binary man might have done. BOTH/AND. He did not know how God felt about the movie. He hoped that he had not left his Lover behind at the movies. 



After leaving the movie theater in the neighboring town, the man went to the grocery store where he struggled to plan a lunch that he’d invited his four children to attend on Christmas Eve day. Christmas eve was on a Tuesday, so he decided to serve tacos. “Taco Tuesday!” the Goddess announced to anyone who could hear in the grocery store. And so it came to pass that the man’s refrigerator (not HIS refrigerator) was filled in preparation for the company of his children. Praise be to the Mother! Praise be to the Lover! Praise be to the Lion who was seen in the Moth! Praise be to the snake which circles back on itself!



Concerning the conversation with his brother:



Text to brother:



Trav: "Hey Kyle. It was such a joy last night to talk to you. I was incredibly excited to hear about what's going on in your life.
I have a request. You can do with it what you like, of course. 
I don't like it when you give me advice. Please feel free to share with me your experience, your strength, and your hope. 
I will joyfully take all of that into my heart and let it do what it will. 
But, when you give me advice, 
and try to convince me to say and do things that I obviously have an aversion to, 
that really turns me off.

 The two instances from last night that I am referring to now are the microdosing of mushrooms issue, 
and the oath issue. 
it is very bothersome for me when someone, 
anyone, assumes they know what is right for me.

 If you want to have a relationship with me, 
it is important that I can be honest with you. 
These are my boundaries, 
the parameters under which I am willing 
to work on a relationship with you.

 I love you. I accept you. 
I am happy for your deeper Awakening to the nature of reality. 
I hope we can find a way to bring our beings into deeper communion with one another.

{KosmicLongTextTrav!}



The brothers had a strained relationship for their entire life. It was hard to talk about. The middle-aged man felt something like fear when he was relating to his brother. He felt like he had to fight to be heard. He did not feel listened to. He did not feel valued. He felt talked down to. The middle-aged man did not like having to listen and listen and listen when he never felt heard. He had spent much of the day acknowledging these parts of his being that felt threatened by his brother.



“Nothing that is real can be threatened

Nothing exists that is not real”

ACIM page 1



And so it came to pass that the middle-aged man held tenderness in one hand, and fears in the other. The miracle was still occurring. It had been nearly ten hours since he’d sent the text to his brother. There was no reply. The middle aged man had second-guessed his intuition in the sending of the text. “Am I trying to protect some part of me that is unreal? Or, am I setting up healthy boundaries in order to have a relationship with my brother?”



His brother wanted him to take an oath of undying loyalty to their brotherhood. The middle-aged man did not feel comfortable with that. The middle-aged man had already broken all the promises that he’d ever made. He was not interested in making any more promises. Taking an oath felt contrary to a life lived from moment to moment. To the middle-aged man, taking an oath seemed contrary to the fluidity that he was committing his life to. For years now, his younger brother had asked him to take this blood oath. He did not feel any closer to taking that oath today. However, he did feel the desire to point out to his brother that there must be something in the blood, because he certainly wouldn’t be having any conversation with him at all if it were not for their deep history and ties to family. He did not say that to his brother. He thought it would be unnecessarily hurtful, the equivalent of saying, “Hey Kyle, if you were anyone else, I wouldn’t even be talking to you now. In fact, the ONLY reason I am talking to you is because you are my brother.” And so it came to pass that the dying author stepped away from his chromebook with the intention of saying yet another prayer for his suffering brother today, surely a noble and worthy intention. Amen



Open arms, my brother. Open arms.



It occurred to the writer in this moment that he seemed to be more and more present in this story. The disappearance of this author would surely be a miracle indeed. This author acknowledged that he did not understand how to accomplish this disappearing act. He knew that the disappearance miracle was no act at all, that it had nothing to do with performance. He knew that the death of the author had to be real, genuine, authentic in nature. The author invited the miracle of disappearance once again. “Please, Father, for the sake of her. For the sake of those who are witnessing, allow the miracle to come to pass. For the sake of the brother. Please allow this author to die. May I offer my death as a sacrifice? Is that a legitimate path? It is out of my hands. It is more than I can do. No matter how hard I try, I cannot bring about my own death. I can only trust. These are things that I do not understand. Please, for the sake of the reader, bring about this miracle. Amen.”



The dying author, having moved into the kitchen, had resumed his North-facing position several pages ago. He now retired to the stack of three pillows provided for him in front of the sink. As he breathed in the half-lotus, making the intellectual’s nod to the practice of vipassana, an idea occurred to him. “What if, since I am already here, since I am already becoming more and more present in the story, what if I just show up with as much presence as is possible, with as much honesty and authenticity as possible. What if I come out from behind the mask of the paranthetical? What if I drop the narrator’s voice. What would happen then?” He stood at that threshold, realizing that it would change everything that he’d been working on. It was a risk. “What is the risk?” he wondered. “What is at risk here?”



He returned to the pillows.



The writer returned his attention to the sickness that he’d experienced at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest that night after he had bundled in layers and visited with the shining moon. He returned to the cabin, this time in first person, an intentional risk, an experiment.



There I sat, in the comfortable chair in the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. I was wearing my olive drab jacket, the one I’d purchased at Wal-Mart for my poorly planned hitchhiking adventure. I was wearing my yellow elk skin work gloves. (Praise be to the mother of all Elk. May her living sons grow large antlers. May there be plentiful food in the winter.)



The illness had come over me. I walked in the moonlight, acknowledging all that I had seen, felt, and experienced, recalling all the sacred ceremony in which I participated. I witnessed the death and resurrection of the Christ Moth. I communed with the trinity in the light fixture. I sank into the soil, in communion with the great wisdom of the ones who turned the rocks into arable earth. Yet there I sat, my hands beginning to shake with frustration, my neck and face tensing. The great self-loathing was coming over me, the self-loathing I had known for my entire life but had only become aware of in the last eight years of my life.



All the loss of the last two years was upon me. The great question came. “How can I live with myself?” The tone in this question tonight was not one of curiosity and wonder. The tone in the question that night was…



Present tense? More presence? More presence, my Lord?







Here I sit. In this cabin. In this comfortable chair. I am wearing my olive drab jacket which is beginning to feel like home. I am in a cabin in the Lincoln National Forest. The shades are drawn. I am wearing my yellow, Elk skin gloves, the same ones I will take off in several days to text my ex wife. She will tell me that I am too manic and that she is not sure if she wants to be my friend. 



There is an illness about me right now. I feel sick in my spirit, a spiritual malady. I do not know how I will live with myself. How can I live with myself? I bought those damn pastries today at a fancy bakery in Cloudcroft. There they are, right over there, sitting on that table over there in the kitchen. Two pastries. Six dollars each. Twelve dollars worth of pastries I can never eat because I am sick with myself. I am disgusted with myself. One is a lemon cheesecake pastry. The other is a cinnamon roll. I am disgusted with myself for buying those goddamn pastries. How the fuck could I have possibly bought those pastries today? Christmas is coming! I am running out of money! My kid's cars are going to get repossessed!



Oh fuck! I also have a new mandolin. It cost fourteen-hundred dollars. I bought it before I knew that I would be resigning my job. But there it is, a symbol of my selfishness! Although I bought it in a desperate moment, I told myself that it was a gift from the Universe. I was desperately trying to give myself what I thought I needed to survive. My coworkers encouraged me to get it, but that doesn’t matter to me right now. I’ve got this expensive mandolin and my kids cars are going to get repossessed!



I have no job. I have no way to pay my child support. I have no intention of finding a job right now. How can I possibly live with myself. This is too much for me. I cannot carry this. My children are going to have their fucking cars repossessed. The mother of my chilren—She is going to hire a lawyer and have my bank account garnished (not that there will be anything in there). I am weak. I am sick. Son of a fucking bitch!



God, please help me. I cannot do this. This is too much for me to carry. My worst nightmares have come true. I have left my wife. I have left my children. I am living a selfish life. Look at me. These six dollar pastries over there on the table. That mandolin over there by the fireplace. Is it true that my awakening is measured by how comfortable I am with my own hypocrisy? If so, I am not very awake right now, because I am very uncomfortable.



I know what this place is. I have been here many, many times. I want to call myself names. I need to call myself bad names. It will make me feel better if I call myself names. My right hand makes a tight fist in the yellow elk skin glove. I can see my fist. It is shaking now as my eyes cannot cry. Now my fist speeds toward my forehead. My fist is moving so fast but time has now slowed to a crawl. This moment has drawn out into some eternity. The fist stops just as the leather of the elk skin glove touches my forehead. I am on the verge of self abuse. No. I have crossed that line. I am angry. I am lonely. I am disappointed. I am in my illness.



Father! I cannot live with myself. This is too much to bear.



I remember my earthly father. I can no longer remember all the pain he caused me. He is the one who gave me many vehicles. This was how he proved to me his love. This was the love that he knew to give. I must be grateful. How many vehicles did he give? I cannot count them right now. If I did count, there were so many, that I would probably leave one out. 



This is the father that I hated. This is the same father that I judged for so many years. The father that I so often do not speak to. The father that angers me. He is the one who supported my family by giving us vehicles. He gave these great gifts of transportation, which enabled us to keep getting where we need to go. There was the Toyota Tercel. There was the burgundy Nissan pickup. There was the blue Ford minivan. There was the Nissan 240 SX. And here I am. I cannot pay child support. I am on medical leave again, unwilling or unable to work at my job.



My two youngest children will have their cars repossessed and the father that I have hated or loved-from-afar gave me all these vehicles. I am sick with myself. I am disgusted. How can I live with myself?



Father. I cannot bear this. I cannot live with this. How will I live with myself?



Now I am crying. Oh, thank you God, this is good. Tears are good. This is a relief. An emotional release. I am breaking open. I can feel it. My sickness has broken me open. I am reaching out for help with my heart. “Father, please hold me. I need to be held.” Now I am sobbing. My chest is heaving. My body is convulsing. I do not know how long this goes on. It goes on for a very long time. “Father. I need to be held. Father! Why won’t you hold me. I cannot bear this. This is more than I can bear.” 



Over by the fireplace. I see something. A carved bear. A hand-carved bear. He has strange eyes. Twinkling eyes. Alive eyes. He looks like a young strong bear. He is only a bear from his chest up. The rest of him is still trapped in the log. He is a bear. He is a tree. I am still crying. But I make eye contact with the bear. He is alive. His intentions are helpful. I go sit by the bear. I look into his eyes. “You are a strong bear,” I say. “A very strong bear.” It feels good to tell this bear how strong he is.



Now I am overwhelmed by feelings of sadness and disappointment and disgust again. I cannot bear this. I need to be held. “Father! Please hold me. I need to be held! Please, Father. Please, hold me! I pick up the bear. I hold the bear in my arms. I hug the bear. I squeeze the log. The log feels good and solid in my hands. “You are a strong bear!” I scream, tears flowing from my eyes, chest heaving with sobs. “You are a strong, strong, bear. I love you. You are a strong, strong, bear.” with this proclamation toward the bear I feel something different in my own being. 


Time and time again I hold the bear. I hug the bear. I cry. I scream. I moan. I grieve as if I have lost a loved one. I put the bear down. I pick the bear up. I squeeze the hard wood. “You are a strong, strong, strong, strong bear!” When I tell the bear how strong he is, I can feel these words coming straight back into my chest. I can feel the love and admiration that I have for this strong bear in my own being. As I hold the bear, I am holding myself. As I praise the bear for his strength, I am giving myself the praise that I need to bear this. I can feel myself being held from the inside. I am now able to sense the Father holding me. This goes on for, I do not know how long. Something is changing inside me. I am being held by my heavenly Father. 



Also, I notice that something has changed in my heart for my earthly father. Something has changed in my heart toward myself as a father. I can feel the fathers, as if there are three of them. I am full of the father. I and the father are one. I am present with the Father. The Father is present in me. I am the Father. Praise be to God. Praise be to the bear log.



I am here. I have showed up. I am in love. 

I can bear this now. I can live with myself. I have made peace with my own hypocrisy. I have made peace with my own humanity. I have made peace. I am okay with myself. I am giving myself the love that I need. It is coming from this deep well within. I can see now that I can bear this, as long as I can experience this presence--the presence of my father, this deeper forgiveness. This deeper communion with Spirit. “I am a strong bear,” I begin to smile. “I am a strong bear. You are strong bear,” I say to the bear as I sit cross legged on the floor by the strong, strong, strong, strong, strong, strong bear. I am filled with joy and love. “I am a strong bear.” I can feel how strong I am. I can see how strong I have been to have come this far in life. I see that I have truly done the best that I can. I have given everything to be here right now, in this cabin, in the Lincoln National Forest, with all the shades drawn.



I am not desperate. I am not sick anymore. I do not want to hurt myself. I want to live this resurrected life more than anything. I want to commit myself to this life. I want to make an oath to this life in me, an oath that is renewed every time I say yes. I want to live the rest of my life a strong bear. “I am a strong, strong, strong, strong, strong, strong bear.” Every time I say the word “strong” I am renewed. I am empowered. I am one with the Father. I have made peace with my own fatherhood. I have made peace with myself as a flawed human being. I have made peace with my own hypocrisy. I have made peace with the mandolin. I have made peace with the pastries.



I sit for a very long time in this new, deeper presence. I feel that I have deepened. I am a deeper being. I eventually grab my guitar, paying it respect and giving it thanks before I pick it up. I walk over to the kitchen table and I take my Father’s seat. I play the two songs that have been giving me life over the last weeks, I give myself away, and Eye of the hurricane.

(editor's note: the following recordings represent the aforementioned singing, but are not record of the exact moment written of):
TravelinTrav TransRationalBlues {Eye of the Hurricane: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHlxtigwurg  Give my self away: https://youtu.be/ex-JtehyV5M}




I sing these songs with no measured time. I release time and I allow them to come out with deep space. There is unprecedented presence in my voice, in my song. Deep unprecedented calmness, and quietness and joy









I Give Myself Away



I am humbled. I am broke

I gave myself away by mirror and by smoke

Gospel man with feet of clay

I gave myself away



Mountains move beneath my hands

The earth and sky obey my every command

Breathing underneath the waves

I gave myself away



Rise up. Rise up again

Deeper power rising from within

I give myself away

I give myself away



God is hot and God is cold

I felt his angels give me meek and give me bold

Naked is the way I came

And so I give myself away 

I give myself away.



Rise up. Rise up again

Deeper power rising from within

I give myself away

I give myself away





Eye of the Hurricane



In the eye of the hurricane

You are always still

In the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



There I held you

Like I said I always will

In the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



In the eye of the hurricane

In the eye of the hurricane



How will you hold me

When the pain comes like this?

She looked me in the eyes

Betrayed me with a kiss



She said, “You cannot walk on water.”

With a tongue sharp to kill

But, in the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



In the eye of the hurricane

In the eye of the hurricane



Engine’s losing power

Looking for a place to set down

Man of the hour

Tomorrow he wears that thorny crown



The sky will darken

And the moon will bend my will

But in the eye of the hurricane

You are always still



In the eye of the hurricane

In the eye of the hurricane



The dying author reads an excerpt from Bruce Sanguins’ book, Dismantled.



The author prays to be empowered to live a life of devotion



He finds his knees on the mexican tiles in the living room of the adobe house in the college-cowtown



He recalls the end of the story. He returns to first person back at the cabin.



Begin draft:

 

The next morning, I woke up with the sun.



I went for a walk. I wore my olive drab jacket that was starting to feel a lot like home. I wore my yellow elk skin gloves. I wore a stocking cap and long underwear. I had my chapstick. I was warm in my layers.



I made my way down the descending gravel roads, making sure to take note of the turns I made so as not to get lost. I began to sing kumbaya. 



Someone’s singing my lord kumbaya

Someone’s dying, my lord. Kumbaya.

Someones crying, my Lord. Kumbaya

Someones breathing, my Lord. Kumbaya



Oh lord, Kumb….



At that moment I heard a dog barking. I turned to face him. A giant black and tan dog was charging me! 


I squared off with him, very calmly, very peacefully. I raised my hand in the air, projecting my voice with intent, for my best interest and his. “No! Get Back.”



The dog reacted as if he’d encountered an invisible barrier, he turned to the side with timidity.



I turned slowly to walk away, making sure that the dog had no more intent to advance.



“Oh Lord, Kumbaya.”

“Someone’s loving, My Lord. Kumbaya.”

“Someone’s growing, My Lord. Kumbaya.”

“Someone’s being, My Lord. Kumbaya.”



Oh Lord, Kumbaya.

I complete my walk with no further incident.
I return to the cabin.

I am grateful to be back in the warm cabin. I open up the shades to let in the morning sunlight. The pastries are over there on the table. What’s that? They do not provoke the same sickness in me as they did just last night. I approach the kitchen table. I stand over the pastries. I open up the white Styrofoam to-go box. The cinnamon roll looks very tasty. “Hmmm…” I say to myself. “I believe that my father would really like that cinnamon roll.” I smell the cinnamon roll. “Yes,” I say, “My father would enjoy this cinnamon roll very much.” I retrieve a knife from the utensil drawer. I cut a third of the cinnamon roll; it is a big piece of sweet bread, enough to last the rest of the weekend. I place it on a plate and I nuke it for 12 seconds. I return to my Father’s seat, the same place where I played the guitar and sang with an unprecedented voice last night.



I sit down. The warm cinnamon roll is before me on the white ceramic plate. I retrieve a fork from the utensil drawer. I cut into the cinnamon roll and place a bite in my mouth. I give thanks for this food. I am filled with gratefulness. The miracle has come to pass. The cinnamon roll that I thought that I could never eat because of my shame, is now bringing me great joy. 



As I taste the cinnamon roll, I know in my heart that my father would truly love it. I know my Dad well enough to know that this is exactly the kind of cinnamon roll that he would love. I am proud that I know this. I can feel him with me, my earthly father, the one who gave me all the vehicles. I may not be able to give my children vehicles. I can live with that. Today I can live with that. I have done my part. I will continue to do my part. I have given my children many, many gifts. I feel at peace with my dad. He lives in me as my Heavenly Father is living in me. I am also aware, once again, of my own fatherhood. I have made peace with the fact that my children may have their cars repossessed. Today there cars are not being repossessed. I cannot do anything about tomorrow right now. All I can do is follow. I can devote myself to the following of this Great Father Spirit. I can devote myself to the loving of God. I can devote myself to this process. I can devote myself to this ever-changing, ever-evolving process. Praise be to the pastry maker and the love that flows from her hands! Praise be to the camouflage dog who barks and runs in my direction! Praise be to the bear in the log! Praise be to the strong, strong bear! For he is truly a very, very, very strong bear. And I love him. What a strong, noble, compassionate bear, he is. Praise be to the bear’s mother!









Inside Stone



 “The child who broke

The one who woke up crying

A lovely journey…”

—Book of the Ageless Ophidian, Chapter 9 v15

 translated by Chogyam Trin Pan 



In the thick air of a cool basement, two boys faced one another. They unzipped, engaging each other in a playful sword fight of sorts. The sun’s rays angled in through a half hazed window. 

“We need to get some girls down here,” says the taller of the two. 

A disturbance causes the smaller boy to turn quickly and face the slowly arcing dust motes traveling through the white light. The sound of the opening door from the top of the stairs jump-starts the two boy’s already elevated heart rates. Stairs creaking under feet, the small boy’s grandma chides sharply, “I know what you two are doing down there, and if you don’t stop right now I’m going to tell your fathers!”

The old woman stops half way down the closed stairwell. She stares at the boys who have just barely escaped being caught with their pants down. Trying to look innocent, not knowing now what to do with his hands, the small boy averts his eyes from his grandmother’s silhouette, now analyzing the cobwebs in the corner. The oldest boy stands awkwardly wide-eyed, breathing heavily through his open mouth, staring at the woman’s feet. 

Only now, under her gaze, does the little boy grasp the gravity of his innocent play. He only knows that he does not want his dad to know. The tight faced woman with the tautly wound beauty-shop curls forces the long silence into eternity as her eyes move from one boy to the other. The boys, defenseless against those pursed-lips.



Later, the younger boy found himself. In his grandfather’s quarter acre lot, he weaved his way through stacks of railroad ties, fence sections, camper tops, and rusting livestock trailers. His curiosity renewed—the sunshine and smell of sheep shit freeing him from the pressing weight of the concrete cellar and his grandmother’s threats. He made his way to the red fence at the back of the lot—the calling of birds and the singing cicadas now the only voices in his head. He unlatched the chain on the large swinging gate, climbed the rocky embankment to the tracks, and followed the rails to the wooden Santa Fe bridge.

He chose three grey rocks from the rail bed, as many as his seven year old hands could carry, and ventured out on to the wooden planks. The creek below came in to view through the gaps under his feet. He reassured himself that the space between the ties was narrow enough that he could catch himself if he were to lose his footing. As he approached the bridges’ center, directly over the rainbowed surface of an oily stagnating pool of water, he straddled one of the gaps and dropped a stone. In simple silence it fell for what may have been a second or perhaps much longer, a trick of time the boy held too tightly. He wished his hands were big enough to carry a thousand stones.

The rock broke the filmy surface of the pool…



He was sorry he had killed the baby bird. It hadn’t gone as expected. He had killed adult birds with his BB gun before, their glistening black and purple feathers ruffling as their neck and legs collapsed under the weight of their own body. That made him feel strong and respected, like a hunter. But the bare baby bird was different. He knew, from watching TV, that it was his duty to put that little creature out of its misery. It was suffering. In fact, he relished the responsibility. The idea of it made him feel so grown up and wise, so responsible. “It is the right thing to do,” he said, relishing the serious and morbid nature of his task. That tiny naked creature, fallen from her nest, screeched and squirmed under the pressure of the curved x-acto blade on its neck. Half way through the surprisingly sinewy flesh, perplexed and horrified, the boy felt the warm red blood on his hands, but the baby would not die. The boy panicked. He stood facing the bird on the altar for a moment, dirt and leaves on his knees. Without the heart to complete the ceremony, he ran, leaving the pitiful writhing life form still squirming on the brick altar. He pushed open the screen door on the back porch, ran inside the two story brick house, and clamored quickly up the stairs to his mother’s room. She was folding laundry. He cried in her arms. The boy was loved for his sensitivity.



From his perch on the bridge, the boy dropped the second rock. Another moment of silence. He could hear his breath hovering over the chasm between himself and the water below. It was that space that held his attention, that quiet moment between release and splash down…

He had once imagined a stone so smooth that it couldn’t be held. Actually, he hadn’t as much imagined the smooth stone, as much as it had appeared in his mind as a vision. The perfect creamy surface of this stone always contracted into a shadowy, craggling, painful object. Too terrible to touch. Sometimes, if he kept his eyes closed, he could witness this transformation over and over again; the hypnotizing change was out of his control. The little boy could not understand the aliveness of the stone in his vision, or why he was unable to control its transformation.

 He released the third rock. It strayed from its intended course and glanced off the sticky, tarred surface of the tie. The boy lost sight of it and carelessly repositioned his feet so that, with his eyes, he could follow the descent of the falling stone. Losing his footing with the wind, he connected himself to the silence again for a brief moment. He could hear the stone dancing on the rocks below as he regained his balance. His heart came into his chest with loud thumps that he could feel in his ears. 



That night the boy lay in bed knowing that he could not go to school the next day. This knowing was manifested in a physical sensation that he would one day call dread; it was uncontrollable, like the smooth stone’s transformation into something untouchable. 

If he could make himself vomit his parents would have to let him stay home. He walked to the bathroom and shoved a finger down his throat but was unable to produce any substance from his stomach. He gagged as loud as he could and then plopped down heavily onto the cold white tile by the toilet, hoping his parents would hear his distress, angered by his general state of physical well-being. Wishing for disease, he recalled the stone’s hushed descent. It comforted him for one moment before the image of his grandmother returned like a chronic illness. Several more failed attempts at throwing-up produced pitiful gurgling sounds, causing his father to yell from upstairs, “You ARE going to school tomorrow!” The boy gave up on the process, hoisted himself from the floor, slumped his shoulders and plodded back to his bed.

He lay on his back, pulled the covers up to his chin, and focused his attention on the cracks in the ceiling. He sensed the rise and fall of his chest. Again he thought about the pocked stones, the tracks, the bridge, the dirty rainbow covering the foul waters. He perceived the weightlessness of the rock in the moment before it broke the surface. He stopped the descent in mid air, hovering himself in that space below the bridge. He became the stone’s mind.

His breathing slowed. Hands and feet buzzed. His limbs retreated. Eyes became black circles. Scaled skin slid under sheets. He lowered his long thick body from the soft bed to the scarred hardwood floor, curving along, past the bathroom tiles and up the stairs. His parents were sleeping. He paused for a moment as he reached the open door, surprised by his tongue as it slipped from his mouth; he could taste his parent’s breath and sweat in the air, hanging thick. He slid forward now, under their bed. He quickly curved his body around the hanging blankets, up and over his father’s chest, under sheets, and around his mother’s radiating leg. Entwined with the two, he rested, perfectly still, perfectly silent, his scaled skin detecting what had before been unknowable. He remained there for the time it takes a stone to fall. Then, as quickly and quietly as he had come, he unwound himself from their unconscious bodies and lowered his body onto an oval rug.

The reticulated form found its way to the laundry chute and spiraled down the smooth walls to the cellar where it curled in a corner next to the water heater, motionless, in a deep reptilian meditation, breathing long slow breaths—breaths that were very much like the stillness inside stone.





Patrimony

“Ophidian friend

Deepest reptilian brain

He eats the children…”

—Book of the Ageless Ophidian, Chapter 12 v42

 translated by Chogyam Trin Pan



Although he and his friend never returned to the basement, he suspected that his grandmother had told on him anyway. His father was not a religious man, but he did preach fervently against the dirty butt-fuckers who soiled the earth with their flaming feminine accents. Untouchables. the most despised of humanity. The homos. The faggots. 

The boy willingly sang in his father’s angry choir while often suspecting himself to be just such an abomination. There had been the cellar; and sometimes there were daydreams, uncontrollable, like the contraction of the smooth stone in his mind, the thoughts playing over and again in a disturbingly persistent loop. The more the boy tried to stop his thoughts, the more powerful became the feedback frequency. 

At eleven years old he anxiously awaited puberty, frequently inspecting his underarms and scrotum for signs of any growth. He patrolled his slender legs for traces of coarse hair, and imagined his penis longer and darker. Nothing happened. From quick sideways glances stolen at the urinals he knew that he was behind everyone else. While changing after gym class, some of the boys began to proudly display their primal hardware. He sensed that these more mature boys were altogether different creatures, full of confidence produced by their impressive physical change. They were men. Terrified by their deepened voices and superior strength, he shamefully shielded his own paltry penis. He knew that he needed more if he was ever going to start fucking girls. All these thoughts, sad and shameful secrets.

The boy’s mother provided him with a sex-education book. He poked and prodded, hoping to achieve the elusive orgasm he read about. It all felt good, but no liquid. Once he could produce semen, he hoped things would change. He put on cologne and hungered for the attention of the prettiest girls. He envied the confidence of the popular boys. They had courage. It was evident in the way they moved and laughed; they were obviously animated by some mysterious force. He wanted them to talk to him. He wanted to be them.

It scared him how much he wanted them. Their smooth confidence aroused his desire and increased the frequency of his unwanted daydreams. He forgot about them sometimes, but they always came back. The fear that these fantasies produced was paralyzing. On the bus ride home from school he shut his eyes tightly to lock down the tears. The warm sun flickered from behind the trees and bounced behind his eyelids. He was afraid of what he knew was the truth, that he was a fag. 

When the boy ran with flopping wrists his father showed him how to clench his fists. When the boy was threatened at school, the father advised him to go ape-shit-crazy on his enemies. The father tried to show his son in so many ways how to be a man, but it wasn’t having any effect. The boys own father, in fact, was not quite sure of his own manhood. But the boy did not know that. The boy knew that he was not a man like his father. It was Fall and the boy was still bothered by a fantasy he’d had last spring involving a baseball teammate. 

At the movie theater he was surprised when he sat in the back row with a beautiful girl from his class. They kissed until their lips were red and puffy. Although elevated by the rapture of their mutual consent, the wetness of her lips, the smell of their mixed saliva, her smooth skin, and proof of his own heterosexuality, he broke up with her the next day at school, embarrassed by her name, Tanda. He had loved the little girl that night at the movies, so beautiful, so willing, so present, so generous with her attention. He loved her even as he cut her off by the lockers. She cried. But her name sounded so black. So embarrassing. Tanda. (editor's note 2026: Tanda was white)



He aimed hateful language at minority classmates, calling Tony, the only black kid in his grade, a walking-tootsie-roll. Afterward, Tony told Michael, “I wanna tear off my skin so I can be white!” 

His father hated the towel-heads at the university because they whistled at white women. So, the boy had names for them too. He called his classmate, Behrang, an Iranian-Turd, or just “IT,” for short. 

“If you call me that name one more time, I am going to hit you,” Behrang said to the boy. 

The boy mindlessly rose to Behrang’s challenge, repeating the insult immediately, straight to his face. Behrang, the strong young Iranian, dropped his shoulder, shifted his weight, and applied the torque of his torso to deliver a precise punch to the boy’s guts, forcing his breath out through an opened mouth. Behrang walked away and the boy fell to the dry, red Oklahoma dirt, his neck bleeding under the sharp pressure of an invisible blade, writhing on the little bird’s altar. 

Scales formed in the dust. The snake struck, constricted, consumed the little bleeding bird, then she coiled into the recesses of the playground wall built from railroad ties, protected from the wind, warmed by the sun. The baby-bird-boy was digested slowly over many following years, the nutrients from his skin, muscles, organs, and bones metabolized by the ageless ophidian, his friend.



 

