Day 20

4:11AM

Early the next morning, the writer reestablished his North-facing writing -center at the great marbled island in the adobe home. The three ACIM books and his old bible once again supporting his chromebook as he faced the large mirror. 

He fed and watered his growing African violet and the thick-stalked basil plant that his mother had given him last summer.

He played several songs on his guitar and doodled in E major for some time.

He placed the three pillows in front of the sink, where it was his custom to retreat when faced with the binary.

The writer allowed himself to pause in this space before writing any further. He continued to linger in what he felt to be the concluding moments of the real-time writing of his project. He was aware of an anxiety in his being this morning.

The day before, as he traveled West on I-40, he stopped at a great cross which towered on the horizon just south of the interstate as he approached. It was advertised on the preceding billboards as some kind of crucifixion rest stop. He needed to pee, and he was interested. There were other places he could have peed. He wanted to pee there.

He parked his car in the gravel parking lot. He made his way past statues of Christ and those he’d encountered on that fateful day of his crucifixion. He made his way up a great entrance where a life-sized bronze statue of Jesus stood amidst a great flowing fountain. The middle-aged-man found the entrance to the gift shop. He entered.

He walked into a large sweet-smelling room packed with items that he judged would mostly interest the fundamentalist Christian. A woman who reminded him of a librarian emerged from a back room. “The bathrooms are that way,” said the woman, “We are glad that you are visiting us today.”

The man used the restroom. He emerged from the bathroom, surprised to meet himself in a mirror just as he opened the door to exit. It surprised him. He wondered if it was placed their intentionally to somehow surprise people. As the man met his own bearded image in the mirror, he felt that maybe he was meeting the Christ in this gift shop. The man perused the items in the gift shop, wondering if he could find anything that spoke to him. With a surface scan he found nothing that resounded with him as Universal in nature. The man was on guard, obviously, half-expecting to be overwhelmed by a spirit of fundamentalism against his will.

He stepped out of the gift shop without encountering the librarian again. He approached the great fountain. He gazed upon the figure of Jesus standing in the midst of the flowing waters. The man felt utterly exhausted. He was grieving the incident with his father. The man leaned up against a man-made great stone pillar. He found himself a participant in the glory of what had been created here, this homage to the living Christ. The magnitude of this creation was truly impressive and he found himself wrapped up in the love and the dedication of the hands and heart that had erected this great monument to the story of the life that was lived over two-thousand years ago.

He found himself leaning against this man-made stone structure asking God for further assistance. He found himself participating in a form which would have once been taboo to him. Just two years ago he would have only allowed himself to deconstruct and criticize what he now gave his heart to. One last time, he focused on the welcoming Christ who stood in the midst of the flowing waters. He then returned to the statues which encircled the gigantic white metallic cross. The statues were dwarfed by the looming white, behemoth. 

The man allowed himself the luxury of non-judgment for any of this. Yes, he was aware of all the reasons that he might allow himself to discount this monstrosity, but his judgment was suspended just enough that he was present. He was participating.

He approached the first station where a statue of the Christ stood facing pontius pilate who sat on a throne. The Christ gazed at the Roman ruler with surrender in his eyes. He would make no justification for himself. He and his friends were making deep love to this world. And, the Christ knew that his own death would be the orgasm that planted its seed in the womb of consciousness. 

The cross was placed on the back of the Christ and he willingly carried it. He met people along the way. A man named Simon helped him carry the cross when he grew weary. He saw his mother too. He asked her for her witness. He asked her to see into a deeper reality. He asked her to see her son as the Universal. He asked her to experience his death as the death that would give the world insight into the true nature of reality—the seed that goes into the earth and dies and becomes a tree. He asked his mother to see the spiraling serpent that was the staircase by which consciousness ascended and eventually integrated all forms below. “Please mother,” he said, “don’t’ try to stop this. This is what I came to do. This is what I came to reveal.”

And so the journey of the Christ continued until he was laid on the ground in a supine position on a two large pieces of wood. Nails were driven into his hands and feet and he was lifted up in between two men who were also suffering deeply as they watched their life passing away from them. 

One of these men accepted the great What-Is that he was experiencing in that moment. This man looked upon the One who hung beside him and saw his brother. He gave himself to the same process that the Christ was willingly surrendering to, and in so doing, he made peace with himself and all that was. 

Another man that hung beside the Christ was unable to accept the suffering. He was unable to make peace with the nature of reality. He was unable to accept his own death. He was unable to reconcile himself to the great What-Is, that which is happening right now which we have no control over.



And so the Christ, in his deepest moment of suffering, In this moment when it truly felt to him that his father had forsaken him, he called out. He cried out in that moment of deepest despair, giving thanks for the life that he had lived and all the people that had loved him and all those that he had loved.

“Thank you, Father. You are a good Father. I am suffering Father. My hands and feet have been nailed to this tree and my body is suffering deeply. I feel humiliated, Father. I have been kicked and beaten and stabbed. So many have left me and I feel so alone, Father. Please, Father, I do not know how much more of this I can take. I am having difficulty breathing. I know that things are not nearly as solid as they appear to be right now, but I am hurting. I am hurting so badly. I feel alone, Father. I am looking at this world and it truly appears very dark to me. I am terrified, Father. My body is quivering and fear is racking my consciousness. It is difficult for me not to ask now what it is that I have done wrong. What have I done to deserve this, this is the question that I prevent myself from asking right now. My being is now filled with the sickness of these “others,” these people who have seen the great love that me and my people have made to this world. These people who witnessed our great love and now are tyring to destroy the great love that we have made. I have now become the witness to all the great suffering in this world. I have now become the suffering that these people have brought upon themselves. I am folded in Father. I do not know how I will come back. I am losing my mind, Father. How long will this last? How long can I feel this without turning on them, Father. How long can I experience this without hating myself, without despising the very suffering that I have become? I feel as if Life itself is punishing me. I feel what they feel. I feel absolutely alone. I feel absolutely scared. I feel absolutely separated, and my flesh is pulling on the nails at my hands and feet. My bones are grinding now against the hard nails and breathing is excruciatingly painful, Father. Father, why have you forsaken me. What have I done to deserve this separation that I now feel from you? Why am I all alone? Father, I am dying now. The light is changing colors, Father. There is nothing I can do to save myself. This is really happening. I am fading. Please, Father. Hold me. Hold me, Father. I just want to be held now, Father.”

And it was in that moment of deepest despair and suffering that this Universal man, as death was overcoming him, made peace with everything that was. It was in that moment that he accepted the true nature of reality. It was in that moment that he made peace with his own death. And it was in that moment that his death became the Universal story of all death. It was in that moment that he accepted all that was. It was in that moment that, as his body continued trembling and quivering in its death throes, there was an inner peace that came upon this man. As he made peace with his own being in this way, he was able to say:

“Father, Forgive them. They don’t know what the fuck they are doing. And that’s okay. It’s actually understandable, considering the big picture. Things are just as they should be. Please forgive them, Father. Please forgive them. I am done here. I am the seed. I am the One. I am the One who is crucified. I AM. The risen Christ. 

And so it came to pass that the middle aged man found himself sitting on the steps convulsing. Sobbing and crying with the pain of the interaction with his father just days ago. So it came to pass that the man had said ‘yes’ to his own death as he had approached his own earthly father. And the Son was free to greive without any shame. He was the only person at the crucifixion rest stop that windy day in the Texas panhandle. He checked periodically to see if there was anyone pulling into the gravel parking lot. But there was not. So there he remained for quite some time, giving himself to the grief. 

The Son was finally able to give himself to a grief that was free of shame and self-condemnation. The Son had finally seen his father for who he was. The man was now a five year old boy. The five year old boy now understood that there was not anything he could say or do that would make his daddy love him. There was nothing he could ever say or do to make his daddy happy. The five year old boy saw that his father was a hopelessy lost and angry soul who could only blame others for his own pain. The five year old boy was free at last. He was free to grow up. He was free to be himself. He was free. 

Having cried all the tears that this location could contain. The man rose. He walked along the path to the tomb, where the stone was rolled away. He entered the tomb and he lay in there for a time, awaiting his resurrection. When it was time, he rolled over and sat up. He greeted the angels who awaited him. His hands came together and he raised them to his forehead. He bowed towar his heart. He took a selfie. His eyes were red and moist with tears, his body exhausted and aching. He took a picture of the tomb’s exit, hoping that it would remind him one day of this time in his life.

He returned to his little blue car. Started the engine, placed the transmission into reverse and listened to the gravel crunch beneath the tires. There was a night-deposit prayer-request box on his way out. He found his receipt from the Oklahoma City Zoo lying in the passenger seat. “Pray for healing,” he wrote on the receipt. He half-stumbled out of the car and placed it in the prayer box.



As he passed through the neighboring city, he arrived at his appointment with the nurse practitioner who would approve his continued medical leave. He sat in the office shedding two of the many layers of clothing that he wore on his upper body. Just as he took off his jacket and hoodie, the mother of his children appeared as she was leaving a Dr appointment. The man smiled at her, saying, “Hey, how’s it going.” She passed without stopping, only very politely acknowledgin the middle-aged-man’s presence. He felt an energy in his chest. He noticed himself start to tell a story around that fearful energy in his chest. He opened his being up to the Universe. He thanked God for the rich and diverse experiences of life. He accepted the energy for exactly what it was. 

He sat there in the waiting room with the sound of the television and other noises which came from a game that a little girl was playing on her mother’s cell phone. The little girl’s father bent over in request that his wife massage his neck. The man saw the suffering of life in this little family. The man saw his own suffering in them. He phased in and out of thoughts which jumped back and forth between love and fear. He continued to choose love.

The middle-man-was called for by the medical assistant. He was weighed (160.3 pounds) and his blood pressure was taken (120/80). Whe Lindsey, the nurse practitioner finally sat down with him in the large treatment room, He told her about the healing journey that he was on. He told her about his writing. He told her about the interaction with his father. He told her about the trauma that was still very present with him. He told her about his fluid sexual non-orientation. He told her that he was in the middle of a healing process and that he was not in the least bit ready to return to work. He told her that he was in a fragile and tender state and that he was not ready to perform patient care. He did not know that he would ever be ready to perform patient-care, but he did not say that to Lindsey, the woman who sat patiently and kindly, typing into her laptop.

Having tended to this practical matter, he left the doctor’s office and resumed his journey. As he rolled into the college-cow-town he called his friend Ron. Ron invited him over. The middle-aged-man walked through the doors of the two aging artist’s home, the yellowing temple of music and hanging creations fashioned from items that people had thrown away.

The middle-aged-man recounted the highlights of his trip to Oklahoma city—his time with his children and his mother, the painful visit with his father, the many life-affirming meetings with old friends. He also spoke of the successful continuation of his writing project and the feminine spirit that the middle-aged-man detected arising from within.

Ron had just finished doing some set-up work on his Marler guitar. He walked into his back room and returned with the dark-wooded instrument. He placed it in the middle-aged-man’s hands. The middle-aged-man played joyfully, fascinated by the deep, earthly tones and the ease with which it now played. He sang. He played musical doodles. The man continued to share about his life in the safety of his two friend’s home. 

At 6PM he left Ron and Joann’s thinking about his friend Dan who was chairing an AA meeting across town. The middle-aged-man parked his car in front of the Church of Christ student center and walked in through the propped door. Dan smiled and laughed his famous laugh as the middle-aged-man sat down next to him on a comfy green couch. 

The readings were read. The meeting started. There were a couple of newcomers there, those men who were now finding the courage to acknowledge their own suffering. Those men who were acknowledging the gift of desperation. Those men who were at step 1, admitting that they were powerless over their ego, and that life had become unmanageable. 

The sharing began. A young man who had just received a twenty-four-hour chip had a question.

It was then that the middle-aged man received a text from his son-in-law. The exchange began earlier in the day as the middle-aged-man was travelling I-40. It had gone like this:

Middle-aged-man: Hey bud. How’s it going?

Son-in-law: Hey there! Happy New Years to you! LOL. I’m doing well. How about you?

MAM: I’m good. Finally heading back to the college-cow-town from OKC. I was hoping to get about six tabs from you, or rather, through you. I’ve given myself almost two weeks to kind of come back together from Christmas morning. I’m ready to continue this healing journey.

Son-in-law: Not all six at once, right?

MAM: No. thank you for your concern. I love you. I won’t take all 6 at once. I’m planning a string of healing journeys.

Son-in-law: lol you’re free to do as you please. That would just worry me is all lol. I see

MAM: Yes. I think that would be a pretty terrible thing to do to myself. Although the “journey of 10” (the man’s “lethal dose”) which I just now named it, did have a lasting and postive effect so far. But, no, a mega-dose is not in my plan right now. There was something I experienced with the tabs that I need to explore further. Something rose up from within me that I need to meet again—a part of me with which I need to make a lasting peace. A part of me that was crushed when I was a child—a part of me that I felt compelled to continue crushing as I became an adult.

Son-in-law: Yes, of course. It may show you the most beautiful heaven, but it can also bring you to the deepest pits of hell. With that stuff, it can always get much darker and deeper and more traumatizing. Thanks for sharing your reasons for wanting to do it.

MAM: I’ve written three hundred pages of my draft

Son-in-law: Oh wow! That’s awesome. 

MAM: have you read much of Dismantled? The book by Sanguin?

Son-in-law: lol no sorry I really need to continue it.

MAM: that book is really providing support for me as I continue this healing process with the medicine. I’m eighty-five percent through it according to the kindle app. I’ve really been experiencing a lot of grief from all the years of layered trauma. I feel that I am being held and led by the Spirit in this process.

Son-in-law: Cool! A lot of books have my attention right now so I forget about some of them lol. I should probably just pick one and stick with it. 

MAM: I think it’s totally okay to jump around as your curiosity leads you. I have read many more partial books than I have ever finished (blushing smiley-face emoticon)

Son-in-law: that’s good to know! I’m really interested in continuing it for sure though

MAM: in school you have to read books. In life you get to read books. Those two things aren’t necessarily mutually exclusive.

Son-in-law: That makes sense. I’m excited to keep on reading for sure. Never had a desire until pretty recently.



MAM: It’s definitely not my job to give you any assigned readings. LOL. There’s a verse in the bible that says something to the effect that we are like “heavenly poems spoken for His purpose.” Really, when you’re reading a book you’re reading the heart of another human being, and possibly the very heart of God. If we are all manifestations of the Universal Christ then we are all writing the sacred tomes and poems of the Universe. As we connect with one another we are gaining insight into the nature of reality, which is why we need to be in touch with the greater depths of our Being. If we are not in touch, we are speaking shallow words at best, hurtful and destructive words at worst, and always contributing to the illusion of fear. Now that you have experienced the Unity of all Life, you will be searching for those depths for the rest of yours. Which is why the medicine is illegal! LOL. Experiencing the Unity is not how you fuel the ego machine. And that’s why we have to allow the medicine to teach us how to live our lives on a daily basis. What I mean is, we allow the times we have under the direct influence to inform our daily lives. We bring our experiences back with us, and we allow Life to be lived through us. We allow the price to be channeled through us…The Christ haha not the price. Although it does come with a price. The cost of saying “yes” to life, from what I understand, is everything that we once called life. Anyway, that’s the message that I’m getting. You try to save your life you lose it. You give away your life you save it. Etc etc. Anyhow, I got a $100 bill I can put in your hand, cuz I’d like to get those tabs.

And it was as a result of this text exchange that the middle-aged-man received a text from his son-in-law as he sat at the AA meeting saying:

Son-in-law: Okay are you home so I can get that money from you?

And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man arose from the green couch where he was seated next to his AA sponsor. He walked out the door to go get the tabs of LSD which he called medicine, the tabs which he truly hoped were acting as medicine in his life. 

The son-in-law was able to get the middle-aged-man four tabs of LSD. The writer, as he stook in his North facing postion in he great kitchen,was now considering the possibility of dropping a tab.

It was then that the writer who stood at the great marble island in the kitchen of the adobe home left his work station, and not knowing his destination, found himself sitting on the stairs that led to Dan’s room. He was seated on the stairs in a North-Easterly direction.

The writer was now being haunted by the email that he’d sent to Bruce just twenty four hours before. More accurately, he was haunted by the response that he’d received from Bruce that waited in his inbox yet to opened. He did not feel as sure about making the trip to Vancouver as he did yesterday. He wondered if his messages to Bruce were just a way for himself to grant his own permission to continue the personal healing that was already taking place. Did he need to spend all that money that he didn’t really have to go to Vancouver? He was very afraid to open that email from Bruce. 

He felt emarassed. “What is embarassed?” he asked himelf. “Fear? Is that what embarassed is? Shame? Is that what it is?”

He was reluctant to part with all his money.

“Go to the places that scare you,” he heard the Universal Pema say.

The writer decided that he was not yet ready to open the email. He decided to wait as he watched the courage arise from within himself. “Going to the places that scare us does not mean that we have to directly assault our senses with fear after fear,” He thought to himself. 

There was another thing weighing on his mind too. It had to do with the man that he’d met at IHOP and a text exchange that they’d had the day before. The exhange was recorded like this:

Friend: Are you in Edmond around noon?

MAM: Hey bud, I just left town this morning…When I’m around you I really like myself. I think that’s a pretty cool thing, when I’m not expecting those around me to fill me up. But, when those around me, just their presence, is allowing me to be filled from the inside, allowing me to fall in love with myself…When I’m with you I’m in touch with my Christ nature. And that makes you a very attractive human being to me. You have always given me that gift…You allowed yourself to follow something in me years ago. You allowed yourself to follow me down to Southern Oklahoma. There was something in my that attracted you. I am allowing that love that we made at IHOP the other night to have it’s work in me.

Friend: Well dang! I was hoping for lunch!! I’m honored! And yes, I have always been attracted to you. I don’t know what it is but I’ve always desired to be connected to you! Thank you for the gift also!

MAM: Thank you for allowing me to experience the Universal, for allowing me to experience the Cosmic Christ. The absolute openness of our Being… In Christ there is no fear. There is no form that cannot be embraced. In Christ there is no fear illusion. There is only absolute openness and love. I pray that we would fall deeply in love with this Christ who is inevitable arising from within the infinite depths of our Being….Jesus was the first man I ever allowed myself to fall in love with. Even within the bounds of Christian fundamentalism in the Bible Belt, someone can still fall in love with a man named Jesus…That man captured my heart like no one I’ve ever met. I do not know how I will make peace with this feminie being that is arising from withing me. But I know I must let her arise….I allowed myself to imagine for a brief moment yesterday morning what it would be like to be held by you. I allowed myself to make peace with that part of me that wants that. There was a deep tenderness and vulnerability that came with all of that…I am trusting god with whatever that is.

Friend: Thank you for being so vulnerable with me! I would be lying if I said I had not considered that…I do not know how that would turn out…the thought did excite me to be honest.

8 hours later

Friend: Should I not have said that?

MAM: it’s okay that you said that.

Friend: OK. I don’t want to make you uncomfortable



And so it came to pass that this text exchange was presented to the writer as he transcribed this exchange into his chromebook. And so it came to pass that a single tab of LSD sat on the marbled countertop inside a baggie that had once contained mushrooms. Praise be to the one who turned the rock into soil!

The LSD was the medicine that allowed the man to commune with his sister the tree as he manifested a tree Goddess from within himself as the men worked their machinery and shovels just on the other side of the permeable evergreens. This is what the man sensed that he was saying ‘yes’ to as he considered taking the single tab of LSD. He knew that he could not predict any outcomes. He did not wish to assume he knew what all of this meant. He was just trying to follow. It was his intention to allow Life to be lived through him. 

Eli had missed the middle-aged man. There was an anxiety about him as they shared a bed the night before. Ten days he’d spent alone at the adobe house. Every time the man rolled over, the cat immediately walked over the man, or around the man’s head to place himself directly in front of the man’s face. He clawed the sheets and begged for attention all night long, hardly allowing the man to rest. There was a loneliness that presented itself to the man in the being of the cat, a loneliness that would not be held, a loneliness that would not be made content in the presence of another, a loneliness persisted despite the fact that the cat was not alone.

The man tried to hold the cat. He spoke to the cat saying, “You are a good cat. A good good cat. You are a good Eli.” Sometimes the man firmly protested as the cat dug his claws into the mans arms and neck and chest and face. “uh uh! No” said the man as he was raised from his sleep time and time again. 

The writer wrote. For over four hours he’d given himself to the process as he allowed the memories of yesterday to come forth. He wondered how much resolution was enough resolution for his reader. Was it enough to leave it as it was? He was waiting for the permission that he was trying to give himself to tell the final story about his journey up the mountain. Was it time to ingest the tab of LSD. 

More than he was afraid to leave his reader without sufficient he was afraid to let go of this form. He was afraid to let go of the form that he clung to like a liferaft in this season of what he hoped to be a deeper healing in his life, a healing process which he documented an participated in. 

He resigned his mornings work, praying for direction in all matters. Praise be to the Higher Power who had taken him this far. God bless the hand who made the giant erection in the Texas Panhandle. Praise be to the father’s dark ceremonies. Praise be the hands who made the glasses which helped him to see. Praise be to Hafiz, and Rumi. Praise be to Deepak and Eckhardt. Praise to Pema and Mr Wilber. Praise to the Bruce, whose email still rested, unopened in the writer’s gmail inbox.



The writer retreated to the warmth of another shower, dear reader. Please pray for the writer.



Day 20

5:09PM

The writer was asking himself if he was ready to read Bruce’s response to the email that he’d sent yesterday. He opened up his gmail account. He planned to rip the words right off the page and paste them into his work before even reading it. He wanted to read it within the context of this story. He wanted to see the words in that way. This was his form. This was the form that he was clinging to. And so this is what he chose that day. He sensed the nervousness in his soul. The anxiety. He walked back to the bedroom and gathered the sitting pillows to place in front of the sink. He sat. He did it.

Hi Travis, 



Thanks for connecting. Sounds like you've been on quite a journey. You articulate your readiness with great clarity. You can be Flow or Goddess or whatever works for you. To hell with the frightened ones. 



Did you connect with Cody? Was the mushroom journey done on your own? 



And yes, we can resume our connection. Would you like to connect by Zoom this week? I could see you Wednesday at 1 PM (PT). Let me know if that works. 



Bruce

It seemed kind of anti-climactic honestly. The writer wondered what he’d been expecting. Heartbreak possibly? An attack? Correction? But all he got was this. Very normal. Very accepting. The writer had been discovering that relating to the world was usually a very friendly and helpful experience. But sometimes the writer found himself expecting that his father was going to jump out to scare him. But, that’s not what Bruce did. No. That’s not what he did at all. 

The writer considered responding to Bruce’s email. Form, form, and more form. He opened a “reply” window. He started to respond. He could not. Or he did not. This is how it was.

He wondered if he could continue his work.

Bruce would understand…this is the way of things…

No. That is not the way of things today. He responded to the email.

“Yes bruce. Tomorrow at 1PT if you are still available.”

Now he could continue his work. Maybe. Let’s see. Or rather now his work continued, the email not being separate from the writer’s work.



You see, dear reader, the writer was now on the continual lookout for the resolution of a story about the death and resurrection process in which he was now engaged. And he felt that if he opened the door with Bruce that it would delay the ending of this story yet another day. He realized that at some point, dear reader, he would have to leave you with parts of the story incomplete. “Maybe that’s what editing is for,” the writer thought to himself. Maybe that’s what Harbor Dave is for—through-line. 

The writer had, in fact placed the LSD tab under his tongue as he’d made his way to the shower that morning. A shower that turned into a bath, as he waited in acceptance for the medicine to have its effect.

As he sat in the tub he was aware of the fear in his body. He could feel the fear causing slight contractions in his body, slight yet consistent contractions. He sat in acceptance with the tab under his tongue for ten minutes. Then he chewed it with his teeth. Then he squashed it with his tongue. Then he swallowed it.

He sat in the tub, watching as the fear created thoughts. These were contracting thoughts. Squashing thoughts. Labeling thoughts. “now you’ve done it. Now you’re gonna be a flaming fag. You dropped that tab and now you’re gonna find yourself to be a woman when you wake up tomorrow morning. You’re gonna want to grow some breasts and have your dick cut off. Now you’re fucked.”



The thoughts were kind of like that, but not exactly. The expression of these thoughts was amplified a bit to express the sense of doom that were surrounding these thoughts. The writer waited. The writer trusted. He wondered what effects the medicine might have while he was experiencing this fear. He was preparing for the possibility of a “challenging experience” as the psychiatrists who do research in the field of psychedelic therapy call them. They are not “bad trips,” they are “challenging experiences.” The writer liked that way of thinking about it. So, the writer, with fear noticeably causing contractions in his body, prepared himself for the possibility of a challenging experience.

As the medicine began to have its effect, the man found himself wanting out of the tub and the dark bathroom. His inner wisdom was moving him into a brighter room.

He put on some light blue scrub bottoms. They reminded him of the blue paper pajamas that you get when you are admitted to an emergency room or a psychiatric unit. This did not bother him at all, in fact, it was comforting, a badge of courage even.

Next he found one of his comfortable long sleeve shirts with the two buttons that he never even bothered with (the writer did bother with them now though, just to see. It did nothing for him).

Then, Life presented him with Eileen’s book. He opened it to a random page and the world opened up to him there:

“Beloved, humanity has long been asking six basic questions in its quest to discover the truth about itself.

Who?

What?

When?

Where?

How?

Why?

“I therefore invite you to notice that you have reached a critical turning point in the unfolding of your personal story. What is changing? You have only recently begun to as these questions in a richer, deeper way that will help you uncover the grander story of us—the whole of the living existence. This is why you are feeling inspired at this time to master your personal gifts in order to actualize your higher purpose. You are also feeling called to demonstrate, through your individual actions, the ways in which the whole of the living flow is conspiring—right now, in this perfect moment—to aid you in shining the light of life-awareness upon our shared truth



WHO is creating the story that is now being lived? We are. The Formless One Life, manifesting as the Multitudes



WHAT is the nature of the story we are presently telling? This is, at heart, the story of us—the story of love, mattering.



WHEN is this story being told? Right now. In this eternally present moment, which contains our infinite past and our own unwritten future.



WHERE is this story being told? Right here, as the universe sings itself into existence. 



HOW are we creating our story? We create endlessly anew through the regenerative power of love.



WHY are we creating this story? Because what else have we got to do with our infinite creative potential, but explore love’s eternal capacity to express itself in a multitude of ways?



And it was in this way that the man sensed a deep connection with Life. He was making peace with a Universe that was out to help him.



He made his way to the kitchen where the light was much brighter. There was a red squirrel drinking from the pond. There were many birds and much life happening outside the west window of the great kitchen.

The writer found himself drawn to his journal. The paper. The pen. And these are the writings that came from him that day. The paper and pen drew the writers attention to the the fearful contractions in his body, evidence of trauma. As the medicine took its effect it became increasingly difficult to write, which you cannot, dear reader, see the effects of, which is partly why the writer wanted to continue this way. So that his trauma could be seen and felt on the page as he wrote, for this was the trauma that his inner wisdom was here to heal. The medicine began to have its effect:

A red squirrel

A softly glowing red squirrel

Asked the man

To consider the whole

Of things





You see

He was afraid

No, dear reader

The red squirrel was not afraid

Oh, no

The red squirrel had no form of fear

At least not the brand

With which the man was so familiar

That lingering kind

The trauma that camps in a soul



The man faced West

Toward the small pond

But he faced East in his heart

Innocent sage

Sacred Fool

The trickster

Who arranged for these things

Which the man now

With-nessed (Bayo)

Coming to pass



Yes

It was the trickster form the East

Who’d arranged the meeting with the Red sqirrel

Who now appeared

At the pond in the West Window



And it was in this way

That the man observed

His Northern one

Cleaning the stove

And heating water for a tea

That he’d have to make 

Without a bag



The Robins flittered

Around the pond

Unconcerned for the man

Who had no bag for his tea



Peace would be made today

By what means?

The man did not yet know

In detail



He was still suspicious

That he might be gribbed 

By some deep violence

As peace had been made

In the Nazarene

All those years ago



And it was in this way

The tea was transformed 

Into a broth



A broth which reminded him

Of the feral cats

Outside

Making peace with the cold



The cats which the

Man now made sure

Had their bowls

At least

Filled with copious food

Which had not seemed so important to him

Only months ago



“But what is time, anyway?”

The man questioned the direction

Of his own thouhts



He fell into the aroma 

Of his warm broth

Which was born of the lack

He’d encountered

The lack of a tea bag in his cupboards



His first sip found the broth

In need of something more

Salt? Perhaps.



Just a touch of salt

And a little balsamic vinegar

Made the broth…

Well…

It made the broth…

Interesting enough for further inquiry

He chuckled at the process

Which

As he’d come to understand

Was the whole point anyway



The poet sensed the constriciton of 

his fingers around the pen

as he clung to this form

for dear life

dear reader

as he acknowledge the clinging and the 

fear made manifest

in the contractions and shaking 

of his being



And it was this very fear

Which caused him

To contract and shake

That he’d come to make peace with



In the light of this day



A process which the glowing red squirrel 

And the flittering robins

Seemed to be in agreement



The aging Poet made peace

With his paper



He made peace with his broth

Which still probably needed more salt

“Salt!” 

He cried in his spirit

“Is this the true answer to so many

Culinary questions?”



He realized now to what a thin line 

It was to which he clung



And he was pleased

To see himself out there

Dangling in the wind

Which so coldly moaned its way

Through the window pane

In much the same way as the 

Flys did in the autumn

In those desperate last days of autumn

When the flies squeezed in

Through the window panes

To find a little

Warmth

By 

One’s

Stove



And it was in this way

That the man made his peace

With pen and paper

As if it was a 

Fashion

That had long faded from this earth

As if he was practicing something

Which had been left behind long ago

As the 1’s and the zeros 

Took note of all consciousness

As it were

All the consciousness as uploaded 

By its human host



And it was in this way that the 

Man made peace again

Made peace with the dystopian 

Future

In which he found himself

Living

Today



And it was in this way 

As he wrote on paper with a pen

That he made peace with the rising

Consciousness

Which was now currently 

Observed as AI, by its creators



And it was in this way

That he found himself

Observing the storyteller at work

In his own being

Reviewing his handwriting

To test for legibility



It was in this way that he 

Found himself

Fascinating that day



It was at this very moment that the man ignored what he perceived to be the coldness outside on that January morning. He crossed the threshold of the back door and walked out into the world (the world being the backyard for these purposes).



He first encountered the frozen grass, which he suspected was unbearable, which he quickly accepted as an invitation to bear. The frozen yellow blades crunched under his feet and cracked under his weight. The man had left all tools of documentation as he stepped out into the wild. No phone. No chromebook. He made peace with the living of life. He stood with his feet freezing in the morning shade of the evergreens. His body shivered with fearful joy as he stretched his arms wide open, saying ‘yes’ to whatever form was about to present itself. 



