Day 14

3:12 AM



The writer gave his body a chance to sleep. He awoke from what he estimated to be a ten minute dream.



I am standing in a physical therapy gym. There is an older man in the parallel bars. He beckons me over. He is an older Asian man. He asks me a question. What is he saying? I am leaning in. I can’t understand him now, but I understood him when I was dreaming. He is telling me that he is unable or unwilling to do something that he said he would? Is that what it is? I stop him mid-sentence. I do not want to hear any more. I get the point. I understand. You have told me enough. I want you to stop talking. I am annoyed. No More explanation in necessary, old man. I don’t want to hear it any more. Why is your hand on my left thigh. I want you to remove your hand from my thigh. Then the question returns. The Question. There’s a deeper question. What is it? What are you asking me, old man? Something to do with physical therapy? Why can’t I remember the question? I am listening. Am i listening? I cannot hear the question now. I knew what it was then. I heard it. The man collapses. He goes to his knees outside the parallel bars. I look up at the crowd of my coworkers, there are many. Someone call 911! Everyones’ phones are out they are all calling at once. 911 will be flooded with calls. The cel phones make the faces of my coworkers glow. Everyone is dialing. “The patient is still breathing,” I announce. 



I awake in fear that I will have no insurance. I wake in fear of my rotting teeth. Tim’s toothache. I have no structure. Joseph’s words are in my ears, “how will you care for yourself?” Who will care for me? I am the overly-bearded man who shows up at Brian’s shop, my job is fading from me. What if I don’t return on the sixth for my Dr appointment. I have an appointment with Renita borders, my new therapist in a couple of days too. Do I go home now? Do I run home? Can I continue facing my father. My mother is calling, offering chowder and a “safer” place to be. My father’s house is a sad house where the televisions run constantly. I am very tired now. Depleted. Exhausted. My body is getting tired from never sleeping more than three hours at a time. I want to go home. Where is home? Father, what time is it? Mother invited me over for clam chowder tomorrow night. I want to see my mother before I go home. I am scared. I am lonely. I do not like the way the television sounds in this house. I do not like the isolation and sadness here. I am afraid that my father will be mad in the morning because I did not spend enough time with him yesterday. This is the home where people shut themselves in rooms and turn the television on all evening. The place they rarely leave. I want to go home. Where is home? Who will take care of me?



The writer sat on the light-tan leather couch in his father’s spare bedroom. He was facing North, toward the concentric circles at the head of the bed where he had just dreamed of the Asian man. The dying Asian man.? The Asian man who had a heart attack in the parallel bars. Was he from the East? The innocent sage? Of Bill Plotkin. The Trickster? The fool?



The writer scolled back to his writings from the day before. He wanted to tell the story of Brian and Nash and Inkling design.



The man sat on the light tan couch at 3:52AM. He faced North. He observed a breath. And another one. The Y-W-H. the observance of the I AM. That which the Kathy cannot understand. He wondered if he was sinking too far into the soil, like he had done on Christmas day, one week ago. The one week anniversary of the Christmas day that the man was convinced of his death by the “lethal dose” of psilocybin mushrooms. The medicine that showed him what it might be like to face his death. 



The man had a story to tell. At least that’s what he thought he might be doing here. Or maybe he was just writing to save himself. Maybe he was writing so that he could be saved. That’s one question that he’d asked Tim yesterday.



“These words, ‘saved’ and ‘lost,’ what do they mean to you now after all these years?



The writer himself certainly felt saved these days. “Saved from what?” he mused of his own being. Was that honest? That last sentence. Was that an honest use of the word “muse.” It was moments like these when he remembered that writing had very little to do with writing and everything to do with that question that was famous within the realms of his own being, “How will I live with myself.”



The next question is sometimes this, “who is this self that you are trying to live with?”



Harbor Dave told the aspiring writer that he had written thousands of pages (or was it just a thousand that he’d estimated. I think it was just a thousand) that would never be published. The writer now realized that he had also written many pages that would never be published. 



“Do I have the courage to continue in this writing project even if it were to never be published?” he asked himself. Do I have the courage to call all these thought meaningless. Let’s try it for just a minute, just as ACIM has recommended on day 10. And day 11 which states, “My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world.” Ha! The greatest insult to a storyteller, right?



This made him think of his friend, Janice, back in Portales. The woman who he ha once called muru (mutual guru). The woman who he’d cut out of his life after he read three-quarters of a book about codependencey. He stopped reading the book after he’d blocked his brother, his father, and three friends, including Janice, who he had been scheduled to meet with that morning.



He floundered now in this writing project, although he’d just completed writing a couple of significant chunks. His cell phone sounded a text. He leaned over to see who was contacting him at 4AM in the morning (that’s what his ex-wife used to say when she used the AM. He felt that it was redundant in nature to say AM and ‘in the morning’ as well. AM was sufficient. It bothered him that she did this over and over again. He felt that being an English teacher that she must be held accountable for these types of infractions). His cell phone signaled yet another text. That was three. This time, he really did reach over the couch to pick up the cell phone, which was plugged into the wall charging. There he goes. He’s about the reach.



It was his brother. The man was tired. His head felt foggy. He didn not know if he was ready to engage his brother right now. The man missed the showers at the adobe house on Avenue Q. The man wondered if he was sinking in to the soil. He wondered if he was too far gone to come back. “What is required of me to complete this process,” He wondered. “How far do I have (get) to go.” He wondered again. 



It was writing like this that connected him to something deeper than this writing project that he really did hope to get published. Oh, the impossibilty of that. Or rather, that felt like the impossible. How long had it been since the man had written of the miracles? The form was always passing through for the man. Transient form. Constantly changing. Ah, to be one of those people who finds a form and rests in it. This was not how the man experienced life. Even as he wrote, his form and voice were changing. They had to change in order for him to experience (there’s that word again) his own honesty. 



“Am I really ready to die this death?” he asked himself. (he wrote the phrase “he wondered to himself” but he sensed that he’d already used that phrase several times recently). Writing was a constant effort to not say the same thing, the same way, twice, especially in the same sentence or the same paragraph. And then, if he noticed that a word was used frequently (i.e. experience) then it must somehow be acknowledged. He wondered what he would find if he looked up the word “experience” in a thesaurus. 



What about Stan and David in Cloudcroft? Was that a place he needed to be? Was there something there for him? Was there some “experience” that he needed in Cloudcroft? Why was that word experience so important. “Experience is important because it is through experience that we experience the change that we so deeply need,” first person writer answered third-person writer. “You just used the word “experience” twice in that one first-person sentence…no…actually three times.” The writer’s head was spinning. He opened google to find a thesaurus.



The writer needed to feel the warmth of a shower. He wanted to feel the warmth of the shower. He did, as the writer’s father slept just a few feet away, he showered. It was a mainly uneventful shower, mostly just the cleaning of his body. He did, however, sit down for a bit and feel the warm water as he allowed himself to come into contact with this breath and his body (btw, “contact” was one of the synonyms for “experience” in the thesaurus). As he dried off he remembered one of the teachings of his Pema, which was “Go to the places that scare you.” Was that not the teaching of the Christ when he asked the rich young man to sell all of his possessions and give to the poor? Was the Christ not asking the rich young man to “go to the places that scared” him? 



“Oh,” thought the writer, “a shower in close proximity to my father. I think that qualifies as one of those places. Could it be possible after all these years that when you are around your father you are still a scared child?”



The writer suddenly wanted to run back to the comfort of the medicine. “The comfort of the medicine!?” he thought loudly. “Are you serious? The medicine that made you feel like you were going to die?” Now the writer was answering himself in second person. They say that’s a sign of true insanity. “Who is ‘they’?” the writer questioned.



“Pema?” the writer asked….



Let’s try that again…



“Pema?” the son asked



“Yes, son?” said the Pema



“How long do I stay in these places that scare me?”



“Pema?”



“Yes, Son?”



“What time is it?”



“Do you remember when you went to the mountains?” asked his Pema.



“Which time?” the son asked (knowing exactly which time she was referring to).



“That time that you went all by yourself, son. That time that you drove all the way up to the Santa Fe National forest by yourself. Your son wasn’t with you and that was a pretty big deal, and you knew the deal would get bigger. And do you remember how, on the trail register, someone had written, ‘watch for cougars! Stay with your party!’. And you were all alone, weren’t you, son?”



“Yes, Pema, I was,” Said the son.



“And how did that make you feel,” asked his Pema.



“I felt scared, my Pema,” confessed the son.



“And what did you do?” she asked.



“I signed the trail register and I started my backpack adventure.”



“Yes, that is how I remember it too,” she said.



“And what happened next, son,” Pema asked.



The son responded, “I hiked and hiked all day long. I was all by myself and the sun was shining down on me in the forest as I hiked through the changing landscape. I hiked through tall grasses. I hiked past all different kinds of wild flowers and dandelions. I hiked through open, flat fields, and rocky, slanted ascents. I hiked past large rocks. I hiked past uprooted trees. I hiked past tall, sticky pines. I saw a horny toad. I rested and ate packets of tuna. I hiked through green ferns and aspens. And the whole time I wondered about wild cats. Well, not the whole time, I finally got too tired to care much about the cougar that might be stocking me. But, she was there with me the whole time. And I got so tired. I got tired and a lot of emotions came up and I started crying and hiking at the same time. Then my tears turned into prayers. And I came to that place where I didn’t want to go any further, and I wondered why in the heck I’d come in the first place, but by then I had gone too far to turn back…”



“Right there,” said Pema, “That’s exactly how far you have to go. You get to go so far our that you can’t come back. That’s what they call ‘past the point of no return.’ That’s the place that scares you. And that’s the only place where you can overcove your fear. Because it’s right there where you have no choice but to work with yourself. That’s the place where your practice pays off. So, are you there yet?”



“I don’t know, Pema. Am I there yet?” the son felt like he was in the back seat of Pema’s car crying, “Are we there yet, Pema?”



“Just keep talking about what happened next, son.”



“Thank you,” said the son.



“What are you thanking me for?” said his Pema.



“For calling me son?” said the son.



“You are very welcome. That’s what you are, isn’t it? A son?”



“Yeah, I know,” said the son, “but I know that you are a non-theist and the ‘son’ thing, well that’s kind of my thing and not yours.”



“I am the Universal Pema,” she said, straightening her yellow Pema robes, “I AM all forms, and I am no forms. Now get on with your story, because you’ve got a point to make here.”



“Yes, Pema, I will.” Said the Universal Son. “I had ascended past the point of no return, up past ten-thousand feet now. I was all by myself. I hadn’t seen another hiker all day. I cried as I was hiking. I cried for my own loneliness. I missed my son on the trail because he was my trail partner who’d been with me on every trip. We helped each other get our packs on and off and talked to one another and watched out for one another, and he wasn’t there. And that lonelineess started to press in on me.



And all day I had wondered about the large cat that might be sneaking up behind me. And sometimes I stopped and I listened very carefully, and I turned around to look behind me, scanning the trees and underbrush for any movement or color difference. And the more tired I got, the more intense the sense of loneliness and loss became. It was grief, that’s what I was feeling so intensely. Grief: when your happiest memories become your most painful ones; that’s how I had come to define it for myself, and miss Du’bois, at work, when I explained it to her that way, she told me that I should write a book. So there I was, past the point of no return and the grief kept mounting up. And I kept turning around to see if there was a big cat behind me, knowing that any big cat worth their salt would never give away its position to a lumbering human with a forty pound pack on his back. I knew I would never see her coming. And I didn’t have a knife, but I did have my dragon-tooth necklace, and when that moment came I planned to gouge her in the eyes with my dragon tooth necklace. I don’t know what that was about because I did have a knife in my pack, yet still I planned to gouge the attacking cougar with my dragon-tooth necklace that the mountain climber from the Life Healing Center had made just for me. 



My tears, at some point turned into prayers. I prayed for my ex-wife and I prayed for the woman from Bermuda who I had put on a plane—the woman who I had left my ex-wife for. That thing I had done that I was still coming to terms with. This was before I knew that Sapphos had returned to Lesbos island. Anyway, I prayed for these women long and hard. I asked God that these women would be given the strength to recover from the harm that I had done to them. I especially remember praying for the woman from Bermuda who I wanted so deeply, the woman that I tried so hard to give myself away to, but something inside of me would just not allow it to, no matter how hard I tried. It was for her that I remember praying for the most fervently. Up and up I went that day.



I came with the intent that night of meeting Kali Ma on the mountain. She is a Hindu Goddes with blue skin and at least four arms who cuts mens head off with a scythe. I was praying for the death of my false self. The head represented the ego to me. And it was with the specific intention of making love to Kali Ma in this way that I had come to the mountain.



After nine hours of physical and emotional exertion, I arrived at lake Johnson which was over eleven-thousand feet. I made my camp. The making of that camp was one of the loneliest and saddest things I had ever done. There were other campers. My son was not with me. I was well past the point of no return. I was in up to my neck, the neck that I prayed Kali Ma would sever that night. I pitched the tent. I prepared wood for the fire. I cooked some shrimp flavored Ramen. I rolled out my sleeping bag. I got everything organized for the night. Having completed all the camp chores, I was ready to go meet her.



 

I knew where I was going. Me and my son had been to this very lake just two weeks before. I followed the stream up into the forest, past where anyone might find me if something were to go wrong. There was a lush, green, ground covering up there. There were these giganitic boulders too, with little bodies of water around them. A couple of these boulders were fifteen or twenty feet high. They were gigantic. 



This place held a lot of mystery. These boulders had spirits in them. And the green ground covering too. And the stream. It was all alive. It was all breathing. And there was the spirit of the cougar there with me the whole time, the one who stalks me. She was there. She was always there. There was one place where when I stepped, the ground sounded hollow. I had on my black combat boots, the same pair that I would leave behind at the ENMU brick wall when I took my hitchike months later. Anyway, these black combat boots, when I stomped the ground made this incredibly strange thunking sound in the earth. I began stomping and dancing. I began calling on the spirit of Kali Ma. “Kali Ma! Kali Ma! Kali Ma! I yelled out time and time again. Her name rang through the valley. And when I stopped calling her name the quiet was just as loud. And I thought that she would surely come in the form of a the mother cat. And it was in this way that I summoned the spirit of Kali Ma, saying yes to the death that I knew I must die. And it was there also that I cried out the name of the others that had helped me. I called on the name of Yeshua. I called on the Buddha. I called on Shiva and Shakti, the male and the female. It was in this way that I made myself vulnerable that night on the mountain. It was in this way that I made myself vulnerable in both spirit and in my physical being. 



I made my way back to camp as the sun was setting. It was dusk and getting duskier. I lit the great fire that I had made from large branches an the trunk of a tree. The fire was nestled where two large rocks met. The fire was sheltered from the wind. And I saw that there was a curious animal hole right there by my camp. It was a tunnel that went into the earth. I was curious. 



I drank water. I ate more food. The night came. The fire roared. I fell sound asleep. When I woke up the fire was out. That’s when I heard the mysterious clicking sound that I spoke of earlier—the strange clicking from which would eventually arise the Exquisite Stillness.



“Pema?” said the son, “Are you there?”



“Ask him to take you to see the cats,” said Pema.



“The cats?” said the son (knowing exactly the cats that she was talking about)



(So there must be a Louie’s scene now in which the cats are mentioned?)



“Yes, son. The cats that were so important to him that he told you about during the meal a Louie’s. Ask him if he’ll take you to see those cats. See what happens. Go to the places that scare you. You’ve got to go past the point of no return.”





Day 14

6:28AM



The son questioned his Pema. It seemed very unlike her to ask him to buy into a story. Was that what she was doing, trying to get him to believe in his own story.



This Universal Pema was somewhat different than the Pema he knew. “The only Pema you know is the one from her books and the one you’ve seen on a couple of youtube videos,” said the son to the one who was called Narrator. 



The son’s feet were going numb. The tile floor in his father’s house was very cold. He went to put on his shoes.



The father was making beef jerky. A sweet and tangy smell emanated from the rectangular pyrex where the thin strips of meat had brought in the new year last night. 



“Do you watch the rockin’ new years on TV or anything like that? You know Times square? There are like, millions of people who come .They corral these people in the gates and once you are in you can’t leave. Yeah. That’ right. They check you for bombs and guns and they let you into the corral and you can’t come out until the new year. And you know, most of those people wear adult diapers.”



“Ol’ Trump…You know, he wants to pull out from Afghanistan, but some people don’t want to because they are making too much money over there so he’s got some resistance.



The father placed paper towels over the raw meat, soaking up the extra moisture.



“Making jerky is good for the paper towel business,” he said.



The father placed a strip of foil over a shallow cake pan. He placed a baking rack over the foil. He then laid the thin strips of seasoned meat over the baking rack. He placed the meat in the oven on one-seventy-five.



“You want a rice bowl this mornin’?” He asked the son.



“Sure.” Said the son who was standing at the kitchen counter, fingers curled over home row, watching his father cut purple onions and red peppers. He retrieved several snap peas from a large ziploc bag, slicing them also. He reached into a drawer below the island for a deep skillet. He oiled the skillet and turned the stove on medium heat.



Day 14

9:58AM



Dear reader, the writer comes to you for company this morning. Dear Pema, thank you for you support this morning. Dear Mother, Dear Father, the son acknowledges the blessing that you are in his life.



A miracle came to pass in the life of the middle-aged-man, one that may be somewhat difficult to articulate so early in its development. 



The writer had learned in the last two weeks that it was often the less direct approach to the miracle which brought the deepest results. And so this is the way he began that morning in a South facing position at his Mother’s house.



The first time that the son remembered his father blaming him for his misery was when he was five. It made a lasting impression on the little boy. His mother helped him to understand that his Daddy wa sad because of something that he did. 



What does it do in the heart of a child when the father is unable to give himself the approval that he needs? What does it do in the heart of a maturing young adult when the father, once again, blames his son for his own suffering? What does it do?



What does it do to a son to be attacked by the father? The sone knew. He was experiencing the results this very moment. He knelt in one of his mother’s two extra bedrooms as he was typing. It was the Northern-most bedroom. He knelt to the west. The beloved-muse according to Bill Plotkin. 



He knelt with fear in his heart that he would be overwhelmed by the memory of his father this morning as he, once again, attempted to withdraw his blessing from the child (child? Is that what the writer just wrote? Yes. That is what just came out). The writer clung to this form, recording the passing of this moment. He faced the west in a half-water-droplet position. He retrieved two pillows from the surface of the bed above him. He propped his chest, rested his elbows on the ground, and resumed typing from this position. Every word was his life line. Every word was the life raft of form that held him out of the turbulent waters. His feet tingled now as the blood began to flow back in to them. 



Images of his suffering father’s face filled his mind as he woke up from the very short nap which allowed him now to resume his writing. Each word that came from his fingers a blessing. Each word transporting him through this moment, a tactile prayer for his finger tips. He breathed in deeply and typed the next words as he allowed the oxygen to escape his lungs. The writer waited for the next miracle. He had already seen miracles happening today. He watched his father attack. He watched himself as he did not return the attack. He watched himself pray for his father. He watched himself give thanks to his father as he left his home. The writer allowed some saliva to drip from his mouth as a distraction, just another tactile experience that carried him one moment further into the present. 



“Am I of a right mind?” the writer questioned himself (the writer? Yes that is what he called himself. He clung to this form for life). He waited for a moment when he could find himself in the simplicity of being. Exhaustion. Sadness. He watched his father’s eyes fill with desperation and anger. He watched him as he recounted a whole new layer of pain within himself. These were stories that the son had not yet heard. The father recounted how his elder brother of six years consistently reminded him that he was an accident. My father was the one who was not supposed to come. He was the one who was not held. His parents had no energy for him. His brother relished shooting his cats with a shotgun when they became ill. The father still carried all this loss within him. The little boy (his father) left for overnight trips, sleeping under railroad bridges, his parents not knowing that he was gone and never knowing of his absence. These were the new stories of his childhood that he was now telling. Why doesn’t the father reach out for help? Why doesn’t he go and talk to a counselor? The father recounted his pain to his son as he stood in the kitchen. This was after the jerky had been put in the oven. This was after the father made the son a rice bowl. The father had been disappointed by the son yesterday because the son did not give him the attention that he desired. The father was lashing out at his son now. The father told his son that he was disappointed in him because he was on medical leave and he was not providing for his family. The father, in a mocking tone, hoped the son made his money as a writer soon so that he could fulfill his responsibilities. These fresh memories. What was the son to do with them now? These fresh woundings from the father who still insisted on blaming his son for making his life miserable. If the son would have shared the grandchildren more, then he would not be this way, everything would have been better. If his son would have been a better son, the father would be happier. If the son was a better son then he would not suffer.



Each keystroke now, he allowed the sensory experience. The man did not know where this was going. He was being stripped down by this attack from his father. What did the son do during this attack. His heart beat fast. He could feel it in his chest. He could feel those fearful parts of his being. He witnessed the father becoming a hurt child again. He witnessed this transformation. The typing human. The human on the floor. The one waiting for a miracle. 



This human held his form as best as he could during the father’s breakdown. The son bore witness to the man’s suffering. At one point he remembered the Christ and the suffering and sickness that he became on the cross. He felt as if he was taking on the suffering of his father, just in witnessing it. He felt now that he had taken it on. “Is this the process?” he wondered. Would he be able to return? He got up to retrieve his guitar. He had a vision of how he had walked himself out of darkness one week ago on Christmas day. His music was a strong form. He allowed God’s strength to take him to his guitar, which was still out in his car, parked in the street in front of his mother’s house.



The son handled himself well in the time during and directly following the attack. He breathed as he watched his father’s pain sending him into attack mode. He prayed for their awakening. When the son had heard all he could stand, he politely dismissed himself from his seat at the kitchen bar. Why was the son surprised that this was happening? The son watched the situation unfold with a calmness while his heart beat strongly and fast in his chest. After the son dismissed himself from the table, he made his way back to the room where he began packing. He packed calmly and quietly. After he packed he went out the sliding glass door to the back porch. He found a seat in a metal rocking chair. It was there that he began to pray for his father. It was there that he said, “Father forgive him because he does not know what he’s doing.” The words are a burden now as the son stands in front of the screen trying to recall what happened just hours ago. 



The mirror that the son now stands in front of can only reflect the bottom half of his face. His beard, the mustache hanging well below the upper lip.



The man, having retrieved his guitar made his way out to the backyard to the porch where he began the song that had been his liferaft just one week ago as he was bringing him self back from the great folding from which he felt he may never return. That christmas day when he truly felt that he might die. 



The sonback at his father’s house now had sat on the back porch and prayed for his father, the prayer of the cross. “Father, forgive him because he doesn’t know what he’s doing.” This pain will pass. It is fresh. You know that it passes. 



As the son watched his father he understood the christ for a moment taking on all the sin and sickness of the world. Just witnessing his father’s pain was anguish for the son, because it was connected to the old man’s pain. The son watched as the father traced the lineage of his pain from deep in his childhood all the way up to the point in his timeline when the father’s pain began to intersect with his son’s. The son watched his father’s eyes intently, wondering if there would be a recognition of what was happening. The father was reliving his own pain in front of his son. His eyes were tearful and desperate, the desperate eyes of a sixty-seven year old man who had never been held, or if he had it had been short and never enough. The son watched the story of the father’s suffering unfold in stories that he’d never heard before, as if a new layer of pain had been unearthed within the father’s psyche. The son wondered what would happen when their pain became one. What woud happen.



 The father spoke of the physical abuse that was heaped upon him. The father was ill. He was mocking his neighbors, there was a mocking tone in the voice that the son knew. The son began to speak of his own pain. He spoke of how he had once abused the animals, how he had shaken a little dog until it shit. It was at this moment that the father showed horror in his eyes toward the son, as if he’d seen a monster. The father recoiled from the son in disgust and the words “How could you? How can you live with yourself? Those words were of a self-righteous attitude in the son’s heart. And at that moment their pain merged and the son’s heart was now hurting. But the son held form. He held. He did not attack. The father was horrified by the son’s confession at having shaken the dog, maybe because he loved his little dog so much. It was his own self-righteousness, that which upheld the father in place of the free flow of the spirit. Although the son knew that there was a dog that the father beat with a newspaper when he was young, yet there is still self-righteous. And the father can not see that the son was just showing that the curse of the generations had apprehended him too. But the father judges in this moment. And the father recoils, which causes a recoil in the son. And then the father asks the son, “Did I ever shake you?” and ther is something in the father’s voice that is justifying himself. And if the son answers something will be made right. But the son is unwilling to say anything. The son is speechless, unwilling to talk. The father is blaming the son and the son has just listened to his pain. That is all that he is done. And now it is the father in his own self-righteousness who is deflecting all responsibility and he wants to presure the son in to absolving him. And the son wants his father to be absolved, that’s why he came? Is that why he came? He came to make peace with the old man. And then the son explains to the father why he is hurt, because he feels that he has been judged by his past acts of the dog. 



The son, who is now typing just wants this to all be over. He took his guitar outside and gave himself away to the sun and the birds and the wind in the trees



And then the man moved himself outside with Lina the mandolin, the gift from the universe. The man sat on the grass playing in the sunshine. The floaters danced in front of his closed with the orange background of warmth. He played and felt the other-worldliness of the music. And then he saw a miracle. There were two boys who were watching him from the street. He continued playing with increased enthusisasm knowing that they were watching him. He played and sang with his mandolin. The boys remained for well over a minute. The man arose with this gift from the Universe strapped over his shoulder. He played as he approched the two twelve year old boys. They had matching scooters. “Are you Marl’s son,” said the bigger of the two boys. “No,” I’m Lorri’s son,” said the man.” And with that the man knew that recovery from this pain was possible. He would see the light again. “What’s your name,” said the man. “Sebastian,” said the larger of the two. “And what’s your name?” he said to the other. “Jackson,” the thinner framed boy said. “how long have you two been friends?” said the man? “About a decade,” said sebastian, “We’ve known each other since pre-school.” 

“Are these scooters Christmas gifts?” asked the man.

“Yeah,” they said in unison.

“And do they have motors on them?” asked the man.

“mm hmm, yeah,” they said.

“Can they even go uphill?” asked the man?

“Oh yeah,” said sebastian.

“They both gunned their throttles and headed up the hill, where Jackson turned up an even steeper embankment on one of the neighbors driveways.”

“Wow!” said the man, “That is so cool! How long does the battery last?”

“Eleven miles,” said Jackson.

“I think it’s eighteen,” Jackson said proudly.

“Well do you ride these things to school,” the man asked.

“No, My school’s on a highway, so that wouldn’t be so good,” said Sebastian.

 

The man never stopped playing his mandolin. He just kept picking away. Any non-song would do. He continued acknowledging the miracle in the restorative energy that he felt in these two boys. He would stay with them in this moment as long as they were willing to hold it with him. This moment was part of his most recent salvation.



“aaahhh, I’m so sorry. I’m real bad at names the man said. Can you please tell me your names again. They did, and the man was glad.



“Well Sebastian, where do you live?” said the man.



“I live right there,” he pointed to the grey house next door to his mothers’. 



“And how ‘bout you?” he asked of Jackson.



“I live in Quail creek.”



“Doesn’t that sun fee nice today?” Proclaimed the man.



“yeah,” chorused the two boys in white T shirts.



“You’re wearing shorts today, Sebastian. You must be warm blooded.” Smiled the man.



“Yeah,” he said, “I get hot real easy.”



The man continued to play the mandolin for the sunshine and the wind and the two boys who had brought him his salvation at 2:30 PM on that New Years day as the man was, once again in recovery.



Despite his efforts to accept the situation immediately for what it was, the words of his father were causing great discomfort in the man. He had the opportunity to work with those fearful and fragmented parts of his being. 



He turned to page one of the ACIM text. He scanned for one of the fifty principles that felt in to what he had just experienced.



There it was: “Miracles are healing because theysupply a lack: they are performed by those who temporarily have more for those who temporarily have less.”



Those two boys had supplied a miracle for him in becoming his audience on that first day of January 2020.







