Day 12

5:32 AM



The next morning, having successfully returned from his trip to Bentonville, the middle-aged-man sat in the living room with his mother. His mother, the Universal Glow, who sat next to the gas burning fireplace. She sat in a snake-skin patterned chair, across the living room from where the man was seated comfortably on the couch—the couch which had served as the man’s bed for the previous three nights. The man’s children, his mother’s grandchildren, still slept in the guest rooms just on the other side of the hallway which was lined with many pictures of all the family that flowed from the Universal Glow loved so deeply.



The man loved his mother. He was deeply grateful for her presence in his life. His mother still held him. Over the last year, his mother had done much to help him hold his own form. The mother had done all that she could do to bring her son into the world, and also, to see him be born again. She had not only witnessed his rebirth once, but many times. There were also births that she had not witnessed, those births in which the mother had not been directly involved. But, the mother had a front row seat to his current rebirth as she sat there in the snake-skin chair. She was able to be so close because she knew that she was only a witness and not an active participant. She watched as her son allowed himself this process. She watched as the son was letting go. She watched, and yes, she was worried, but she knew how to give her son the room he needed to do what he was doing. And the son knew how to allow his mother to be a mother. He knew that she would worry, and he was somehow able to allow her to be just who she was in this process. He was able to feel her worrying for him without allowing himself to be overwhelmed by the worry. And these were the nuances of the push-and-pull in the relationship between the man and his mother—the mother who now sat in the snake-patterned chair in front of the softly hissing gas fireplace.



The son and the mother spoke of the son’s upcoming lunch with his father. Louie’s at lake Hefner. 



Son-in-law asks to trim the father’s beard



Waking up at the speed of life



The man’s youngest daughter sat next to him on the couch. “Do you remember last night?” she said? “I got up to get a drink of water and you were standing over there crying. I gave you a hug and asked you if you were okay, and you said, ‘somethings happening.’” She wanted to talk about her grandfather that they were to meet at Louie’s later that morning. She spoke of her apprehension toward her grandfather. She spoke of a fear that she had in relating to the grandfather. The son was able to explain to his daughter that his father suffered deeply, that his father had never been held in the way that he needed. His father had never been seen or known. His father had been physically, emotionally, and verbally abused by a father who had likely had the same done to him. 



His oldest daughter approached him. They had a similar conversation. The father spoke of the generational suffering. He spoke of the healing process. He spoke of needing to be held. He spoke of Andy Dufresne, the man who crawled through a mile of shit and came out clean on the other side. He gave his daughter thanks for the gift of her being. He thanked his daughter for seeing him. He thanked his daughter for listening. He thanked her for her smiles and her hugs. He thanked her from the bottom of his heart and he was glad.



He prayed for the father who they were scheduled to meet. He prayed for that the father would have his own awakening experience, and he prayed that their meeting today would play its part in the great awakening of the Father in the father.



9:10am



Text to father:



Son: Is there any room at the inn for me tonight? I’m trying to birth this Christ Child



Father: First…yes…second what does that mean?



Son: It just means I’m alive. I’m writing a story. I’m witnessing the birth of life in my being every moment. And so, everywhere I go I’m seeing this Universal awareness being born in man and I am acknowledging that same birth in others



Dad: sounds like the makings for a great new year!! See you soon.. much love your way!



The “Stay” game with the kids



1:31

Day 12



After the meal at Louie’s, the Traveller (the son?) fell asleep in a bed at his father’s house. He woke from a dream with a startle. He was unable to remember the dream. The son lay on his back, the weighted blanket, that gift from his oldest daughter, draped over his body. His laptop rested on a folded blanket and a large wooden lap desk that his father told him was his to use for writing while he was there.



The writer’s visit with Eileen and Dave yesterday left him somewhat confused about the purpose of his writings. The encounter left the writer wondering who he was doing this for. Was he writing for the purpose of being published, or was he just writing for himself? The writer wanted to be published. Isn’t that what writers want? Isn’t that what the musician always wanted, an audience (or a bigger audience, or an audience that came to listen). The artist wanted to be seen. To be heard.



Text from MOM:



Mom: Happy Monday (winking smiley face emoticon)



Son: Hi mom



Mom: hello…how’s your day?



Son: I’m okay. I’m at dad’s house. I just woke up from a nap. The kids are on their way to Caldwell to see Dan and Laronna



Mom: should I expect to see you tonight?



Son: No, not unless some kind of unforseen emergency arises. I am sowing myself into the soil here. Making myself available for a miracle. Please pray for our peace. I trust the Christ.







The day before, While in Bentonville, Harbor Dave had given the aspiring writer some practical advice. It was advice that the writer had heard before in a writing class. One part of the advice went like this: “Show. Don’t tell.” The idea behind this being that the audience needs/wants to smell and taste and touch and hear and see the environment in which their beloved character is immersed. The audience does not want to be told about the character. The audience would rather experience the environment for themselves, and the best way for this to happen is by allowing them to feel the world through the character’s senses.



The next bit of advice was also simple, at least in concept: “Dialogue”. 



“The audience wants to listen to your character interact with others,” Dave said as they were walking the graveled paths through Bentonville. “They don’t care whether you can remember exactly how the conversation took place, but they want to know what it sounds like when your character speaks out loud. The audience wants to hear your character. The audience wants to hear the Universal voice in the dialogue between your Universal characters. Your audience wants to observe the characters reactions as they diaglogue and interact with one another. And they want to feel something coming out of that. Your audience wants to be reminded of what they already know, the truths that they know but that they have forgotten, those truths that are buried down so deep that they haven’t been in touch with recently. Or those truths that have yet to surface, that the listener is ripe to hear. That’s why the reader reads--to be reminded of these sacred things. The audience wants to know more about what your character is thinking and saying,” Dave reiterated.



“Eileen,” said the writer, “What was is that you were telling me that day? What was the Universal Eileen saying? What is it that I am able to hear from you as we meet now on the Bentonville square? What was the Universal Eileen saying as we walked those gravel trails?



“Look sweetie,” said the Universal Eileen, “I just want you to know that everything is okay. It’s okay to get naked. Everything that happens in the shower is beautiful! You just keep walking away and you just keep walking forward/toward/inward/onward. Keep taking those deep breaths--those breaths that give you an unusually large rib cage that kind of sticks out like your kids were pointing out to you. I just want you to know that I DO see you. You are seen by the Universal Eileen. Listen, you ARE safe. The Univers IS out to help you, and you are on a beautiful path of discovery that I just want to bless right now. Waking up is a process, my dear, and you are right where you need to be in the middle of all that. I know how to play just like you do, believe me, my friend. There is nothing you can do that’s gonna freak me out, because I have been there. I have been where you are. I have run around my house for days without any clothes on and my kids came over and had to make peace with that. The ambulance came to my house and I had to go away for a little bit and I had the honor of making peace with that. I am familiar with medical leave, my dear. So, there’s not a bit of judgment coming from this direction, my dear. You are on the path, because everything IS the path. Be patieint as you watch this all unfold. Know that you are held. Know that you are loved. Know that you are supported. And most of all….most of all…remember that none of what’s happening right now is nearly as important as you think it is. Money? Do you remember what Rumi said the other day? Remember sweetie, it was on page 72. This is what he said:



‘The copper of your being

Has already been transmuted to gold

By Moses Alchemy, and yet you fumble

In a moneybag for loose coins’



You’re worried about money? Sweetie, don’t worry about money. I know people who lived out of their cars for a while, and that was exactly what they needed. It brought them into a deeper experience. So you just don’t worry about what you are going to eat. And you don’t worry abou what you are going to wear. Look at the monkey grass in your dad’s backyard and how it’s nice and green and healthy in the middle of winter. You see those plastic ducks in your dad’s cement pond? Well you are buoyant, just like those ducks floating on that water, my dear. You get to stop fumbling through your moneybag for loose coins. I give you permission to be this, I give you permission to be the you that you have always known you were. Matthew 5. Am I right, sweetie. Didn’t you always admire that about the one that you so affectionatley call Jesus for all those years? Remember Dear, you are not obligated to take all of this too seriously. And believe me, that’s a gift that this world needs very dearly. As you allow the matrix to crumble around you, you are bringing this gift to the world. You remember that man outside the bus station when you were younger? The one in whom I showed you freedom? Do you remember who you went home and shared that with? You are not obligated to make your ex-wife happy, and although you may be legally obligated to provide child support…well, let’s just say that you can’t get blood out of a turnip, my dear. And if your ex-wife (or rather, that person that your ex-wife thinks she is) is hell-bent on squeezing the shit out of turnips, then so be it. But, let me just say that you also can’t get shit out of a turnip. So, in all reality, she’s just gonna be shit out of luck, and that’s gonna be exactly what she needs. She can squeeze turnips from here to your grandma’s house, but she can’t squeeze you. Remember the big blue books that you were resting your lap tops on at the adobe house, the one that is in your suitcase right now? What does it say? Do you remember? “Nothing that is real can be threatened. Nothing that is unreal exists.” So, if you are feeling threatened, what do you do? You just give thanks that what is false in you is passing away. You prayers are being answered. Isn’t that the prayer that you’ve been praying for a year now. How long have you been praying that third step prayer? Do you reember what it says? Of course you do. “Relieve me of the bondage of self, that I may better do your will.” Well, this is one way in which that prayer is beig answered. You are not obligated to take all this too seriously. And, you really don’ have to worry. And…listen to me, dear… YOU DON’T HAVE TO GO BACK TO LIVING A MISERABLE LIE. Misery is completely optional here. You aren’t on some kind of vacation right now that must come to an end. You are answering a legitimate calling on your life, and it was true when the Christ said that you are not obligated to worry. So, don’t worry. And lastly, why don’t you just go ahead and put a little book mark right here, because you may need to come back and read this message. This is the new message from the Source. The new message from the Universal Eileen which comes from the same source from which Eileen’s first email came from. There may be some more I want to say here as you read through it. 



The meeting with Eileen and Dave (Dave and Eileen) started like this.



The aspiring writer stood on the square in Bentonville. The air was cold. The sky was grey. He reached into his pocket, found his phone, and took a landscape picture of Sam-Walton’s first business, the mother of all Wal-Marts. Sam’s old Ford Pickup sat there, enshrined for a capitalist’s eternity in front of his five and dime, where all the magic that we experience today began. As the writer stood, immersed in his screen, attempting to send this picture to a friend with whom he’d once visited this very sight, he felt warm hands wrapping around his waist from behind.

“Oh my goodness!” he proclaimed, before even turning around to see who it was, “It’s so good to see you!”

Eileen smiled. They hugged. And there was dave, fifteen feet away! They had appeared! Harbor Dave and the Universal Eileen. The aspiring writer approached Dave. They exchanged embraces and polite greetings.



“I didn’t realize it would be so cold,” said Dave. “I kind of hoped we’d be able to sit out here on the square, but it’s a bit too much for that, I think. Are you hungry?”



“Yes, I am,” said the man in the olive jacket, “I haven’t had much to eat today.”



“Okay,” said Dave, “there’s a diner just over here. Lunch is on us. We’re staying with my son. He’s a chef, a real foodie. He feeds us all the time, but I could still eat.”



Dave lead the three of them along the West end of the square until they came to a café on the corner called the Pressroom. The sounds of the restaurant bounced off solid, grey concrete floors. The acidic smell of coffee rose from behind the large island bar. The hostess lead the three of them to a square table on the other side of the coffee and wine bar. Another party of five were already well into their meal, consuming somberly in a little cubby under a multi-colored, textured light fixture.



“How will I keep this up?” thought the son as he lay on his back at his father’s house. “What is the point of all these details?”

“Just keep going,” said an imaginary Harbor Dave, “You’re creating a space for something to happen here. Just put in the work here. Give yourself to this space. Allow this space to create itself, and then just see what happens.” 



The son laying on his father’s bed wanted to object. His heart was broken somehow. He was exhausted by his meeting yesterday with Dave and Eileen. He felt somehow disappointed, like he didn’t get exactly what he’d wanted, even though he’d tried to shore himself up against any such disappointments (He’d rather say that he had surrendered himself to the will of God surrounding the possibility of disappointments, but how could he really know for sure. Something in him was being threatened, that seemed certain). He knew things were never what he thought they were. But, it also seemed that he still had to go through the emotions of it all. He still had to suffer the disappointments even though he knew that things were never what they first appeared to be.



“What did the three talk about?” thought the son, laying on the bed where the father’s little chihuaha, Spud, had peed just a couple of hours ago. The wet spot had spread “What was important? What happened there? More importantly, what was being said by the Universe as the three of them came together yesterday? What was the take home? 



The man placed his black and red computer bag under the table as he found his seat. In the bag was Rumi, and Hafiz, and the book about the Christ that the Christ did no write. Also in the bag, his laptop, this story, the musings that were saving his life. Now he sat facing Northwest. The table sat at a forty five degree angle to the lines of the building. Dave was across from him facing South-East. Eileen was to the man’s right, facing South-West.



The son, lay in the quiet of the back room at his father’s house. The silver ceiling fan turned over head. Would he be able to hear what Dave and Eileen had to say today? More importantly, would he be able to receive the Universal message that was mixed in with what Dave and Eileen were saying. “We’ve all got these egos,” thought the aspiring writer, “we all project and reflect. The question is: Can I experience the Universal Presence in and through others?” There was a part of him that had been quite terrified as he listened to Dave and Eileen yesterday—a part of him that was threatened. “So let’s allow that part of us to dissolve. Let’s allow that part of us to come home. Let’s allow that threatened one, the prodigal son, to return home,” he proposed. 



He wondered if Dave had shared these writing tips because he had noticed some kind of deficiency in his voice style. The word, “marketable,” was mentioned. The aspiring writer—the sensitive artist—the threatened son was not sure how he was feeling about what had transpired yesterday between himself and Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave).



“Who is my audience?” thought the man who lay there on the bed in his father’s back room. This morning, as he showered (so much happened in the shower) he understood his audience to be his descendants. As the warm water poured over the man’s body, he hoped and imagined that, in this story, he was leaving an inheritance for his children and his children’s children. He wanted to let them know that he had been here. He wanted to let them know that he was waking up. He was concerned for the future generations. He wanted them to be well. He imagined these words would be a prayer for their awakening.



He wondered if this writing project was falling apart underneath him. He had secretly hoped that he was finding his footing in a new calling or a new profession. But the meeting with Dave and Eileen at the pressroom seemed deconstructive (deconstructing that which can be threatened?). He met with Dave and Eileen, two writers who had been writing and marketing for quite some time apparently, for how long he did not know. He sat at the pressroom with the owners of a publishing company, two people who are in the business of creating something that is marketable, and he could hear that in their voices, and he felt threatened (may all that can be threatened return home to the Great I AM). 



He sensed his own inexperience in his relationship with them. He could sense them relating to him through his inexperience. These are the best words that the aspiring, student-writer had to describe how he felt about the experience with Dave and Eileen yesterday. His drive home was brutal. He body was trying to fall asleep. He felt that he’d lost all his momentum. “What was the purpose of the Rucker Brothers Album?” he now wondered. The Rucker Brothers album was the creative music project that he self-published with his friend back in 2006. The man continued wondering, “It was never published. Was it ever heard? Did it make a difference in this world? Did it make a difference in my world? It was an excellent album—I can hear the heart of the album. I can hear the excellence of it today, thirteen years later. But, it was not marketable. Or, at least, we did not know how to market it. The Rucker Brothers album was produced and distributed in an ineffective grass roots fashion with seemingly no effect whatsoever on the world (that judgment is probably a little harsh). But his daughter had asked for a copy this morning. 



“Daddy,” she had said

“Yes daughter,” said the man in the olive jacket as he was driving them to lunch at Louie’s on lake Hefner in his little blue Toyota. (his son-in-law sat in the back seat with the man’s guitar and mandolin.)

“Do you have a copy of this CD that I can have? I don’t have one.”

They were listening to the Rucker Brothers album as they drove down the Kilpatrick Turnpike. They took the elevated curveed to the South, transporting them to the Hefner Parkway.



“Father?” said the son, “Is this the purpose of the album? What does this album mean to your daughter? Could this be enough?”



“Purposes are hard to nail down from your current perspective,” said the father, “The world is a complex and interconnected place. It’s hard for you to see the whole purpose and effect of your actions. The important thing is just that you bring this creative Spirit into the world. The important thing is that you continue this birthing process, that you say yes to birthing the Christ Child into the world, whether you are doing it at an inn or a manger. Just keep letting me get you pregnant (Oh my God, is it the father that gets the son pregnant?) and keep birthing the Christ child into the world. It changes you in the very least.”



“Father?” said the man again, “And what was the purpose of the meeting yesterday with Dave and Eileen? Was it so I could be reminded to “Show, don’t tell”?



“Do you remember what the course in miracles was telling you this morning?” said the Father.



“Yes,” said the son, “A course in miracles was telling me that my thoughts were meaningless. It didn’t ask me to believe that my thoughts were meaningless all day long. It just asked me to to consider that my thoughts were meaningless for one minut, five times in a day. 



Then the blue book chimed in, “That’s right, not all the time. Just five times for one minute at a time, remind yourself that your thoughts are meaningless. Just allow that to be. Can you let all of this go right now? Can you let all this search for meaning go for just a minute right now?” said the course in miracles. “Can you do that right now? For yourself? Can you just allow yourself to be? This practice will help release you from all that you believe.”



“But the TV is loud in the next room and I’m afraid of my dad,” thought the son who lay there under the silver ceiling fan.



“Just for one minute, remind yourself that it’s okay for all your thoughts, your dreams, your desires, your needs to become meaningless. Let’s try. Come on.”



My thoughts about Dave and Eileen do not mean anything

My thoughts about this book do not mean anything

My thoughts about myself do not mean anything

My thoughts about that swimming pool do not mean anything

My thoughts about my father do not mean anything

My thoughts about my ancestors do not mean anything

My thoughts about my descendants do not mean anything

My thoughts about psych units and treatment centers…they don’t mean anything

My thoughts about my hands on this computer don’t mean anything

My thoughts about the dupytren contracture in my hand don’t mean anything



“Can I do myself the favor of releasing all of these thoughts that don’t mean anything?” thought the son who was writing this book at his father’s house. The son who was now in bed, facing South, repeatedly bumping his head on the only piece of art on the North wall. The decoration was a large arrangement of concentric circles, all differing in size and overlap. The piece was four feet high and two feet wide. The man kept bumping his head.



“Am I available? Am I? I AM?” said the man in the hooded olive jacket that felt like home.



“Can I listen to one breath, without placing any words in its mouth?” The man did just that.



“Can I drop these identities for a moment? 

Can I allow myself to let them go?

Can I let this book go?

Can I touch my fingers with my thumb? Can I see what that feels like?”



The generative nurturing adult asked himself these questions. And in the asking of these questions, he allowed those fearful parts of his being--those parts of his being that felt threatened—those fragmented parts of his being were given the space and the time that they needed to reintegrate. The man in the hooded olive jacket that he bought from Wal-Mart for a poorly planned hitchhike was learning to let go. He was learning to dialogue with himself, and he was learning to write dialogue thanks to Harbor Dave and the Univeral (Ei) Lean.



And so it came to pass that the man kept with this form. So it came to pass that he continued collecting these thoughts under the title of The Moth, The Mountain, and the Middle-Aged-Man. So it was that he continued in the compassionate meaninglessness. 



“What is important here? What is really going on? What is the nature of reality in this moment?” These are the questions that he continued to ask. 



And so it came to pass that the man found himself asking the Univeral questions as he moved forward with the writing project



“Father?” asked the son.

“Yes, Son?” the father responded

“what time is it? I want to be a writer, father.” The son blurted out before allowing any space between the questions.

“Do you, son? Are you sure that’s what you want to be? I’d like you to consider your desire? Just sit with that for a while. Is that what you really want to be? Or is there something more that you desire?”



The middle-aged man rose up from his reclined position facing South. The man transferred his laptop and the wooden lap desk (provided by the man’s father) to a North facing seated position in a brown swivel-chair textured with spirals. The swivel chair was a little wobbly. The wooden lapdesk provided the appropriate support for his writing. He looked out onto his father’s back yard where he saw a swimming pool populated with plastic lilies and two orange-billed ducks . This was where his children learned to swim. Beyond the pool, he saw a garden decoration swaying in the wind, a bright yellow plastic sunflower towering above the green monkey grass. 



“Father?”

“Yes, son?”

“What kind of trees are those?”

“let’s ask,” said the father.



After twelve days of writing and relatively little sleep the middle-aged man was tired. He was looking for some kind of resolution. He was searching for the end of this real-time journey. But, he was also not ready to give this journey up prematurely. He felt that he was falling apart. He felt small after his visit with Eileen and Dave. He felt inexperienced. He felt naïve. He wanted to be held. His father was in the next room. His father, the man who was never held, the man who could never hold him.



The man clung to his project, a life raft of form in a world that was dying around him. His world was passing away, and he was documenting its passing. When the man dropped his nets to follow the Christ he had actively said “yes” to this death. Yet, he clung to this project even as he was unable to find a through line. He clung to the project as he showered. He clung to the project in the car. he clung to the project as he ate with his family at Louie’s on lake Hefner. He clung to it as he became willing to let it go. He clung to it because he trusted the dialogue that was being born in himself. He clung because this was the salvation that Life offered. He clung because it was his artist’s instinct to crawl into the liferaft that floated by.



His father belched in the living room as he watched TV. The gastrointestinal explosion bounced off the hard tile and sheetrock. The man remembered those belches from his childhood. The man was tired. Here he was at his father’s home where he intended to spend the night. 



He remembered something that he read several months ago. “If you want to find out just how awake you really are, go spend a week with your parents. See what happens.” 



“It doesn’t matter if you remember exactly what the people said,” said Dave, “just as long as you get to the heart of the dialogue.” (This was not exactly what Dave had said, but it was exactly the point).



“What would be the dialogue between the man and his father if he chose to stop streaming these words and go in there with the man who belched?” thought the man



Dave and Eileen spoke to the man yesterday as if they knew and he did not. That is what he kept feeling from Dave and Eileen. It appeared to the man yesterday that they really weren’t reading what he had sent them. Why was he so hurt? Is that even the appropriate question right now? The man felt threatened. The man felt hurt. The man felt small. The man felt scared. The man felt that he was not being heard, and that he would never be heard.



His father belched again in the next room.



“What about the trees in the back yard? That might be a good place to start a dialogue?” said the father—said the generative, nurturing Adult. The man was aware that his father had cut down many trees in order to make that backyard the hospitable place that it now was.



The man in the olive jacket felt that he was out on the edge. This felt like one of the most dangerous places for him to be. His mother knew it. She was worried. He felt it. Was he afraid that he was going to die here? Was there a part of him that felt threatened, like a small child while he was around his father? 



There were no mushrooms. There was no Eli. There was no Dan. And the man’s mother was all the way across town. He sat looking out the sliding door in his father’s extra bedroom. He wanted to be rescued--Rescued by these words. Rescued by meaning. Rescued by purpose. Rescued by an identity. He wanted to feel like he was a writer. But he did not feel that way. He felt like a man with no job who was at his father’s house, the one who belches over and over as he watches TV.



“Will that kind of thinking do you any good?” said the generative nurturing Adult.

“It will not serve me”, said the man.



He got on his knees and prayed the third step prayer which he’d learned from his friends in AA. Then he went out to meet his father for the first time, again.

 

God, I offer myself to you

Build with me

Do with me as you will

Relieve me of the bondage of self

That I may better do your will

Take away my difficulties 

That those I bear witness to 

May experience your love

Your power 

And your way of life

May I do your will today

May I do your will always



“Is this the miracle today, Father?”



Day 12

7:05PM



The son ventured out into the living room. 

“What kind of trees are those?” said the son. “I’m not quite sure, said the father,” I think it’s a mixture of different kinds of trees.”

From the kitchen, Kathy, his wife said, “There are some hackberry trees out there.”



And so it was that the son and father began to talk to one another on that thirtieth day of December in the year of 2019. Once again they had come together. How many times had this happened? How many times had it un-happened with hurt feelings and disappointment?



The son felt apprehension, fear as he sat with his father that day. The son went low, to the carpet. He began to stretch his hamstrings. Breathing in deeply he extended and flexed his trunk, remembering the kundalini awakening, the rising of the feminine serpent from the root chakra. The son faced the fork in the road many times in the early stages of the conversation, stepping carefully as he had been instructed to do earlier in the day. The son realized that the tongue of the serpent is forked.



Earlier in the day, there was a sign at Louie’s which advised patrons to “watch your step.” A woman, ignoring the sign, had stumbled down the steps and fallen into the son as he sat eating with his family. They shared a moment. The son felt a genuine concern for the woman’s welfare. He enjoyed meeting people when they were in a moment of humility, stripped of their sure footing. It felt honest. 



The father had different stories. Stories that the son had never heard before, as if he had been digging in a different region of memory. The son was not looking forward to hearing his father go on a rant about anything. But his father stayed calm.



I am so tired. I need to sleep. I am exhausted. Depleted. I did not tell him about my current life. That is good. You did well. Everything is okay. It’s good because you didn’t have to defend yourself. You didn’t have to compete. You allowed spirit to arise. Making peace. You made peace. You allowed peace to arise.



Breakfast arranged with Tim.



Being engaged with the world and writing seem to be two different things right now. Do I need to let go of the real-time thing? Right now I just need to go to sleep.





Day 12

9:47PM



The middle-aged-man thought of Brian Neeley, the man who he had worked for as a young man at the screen printing shop. inklingdesign@sbcglobal.net



The son, who slept on a large inflatable mattress, woke at his father’s house later that evening. The television played loudly on the wall behind him. He sat, supported by two pillows in the half lotus. His father’s dog, Spud, the little chihuaha barked in the living room. The son was facing South, he believed. 



“To speak of wildness is to speak of wholeness. We humans come from that wholeness.” Zen Poet, Gary Snyder



The television stopped. The son could hear his father getting ready for bed. The son longed for the quiet of night.



North—healing. Building. Creating. Serving people and greater earth community. Eco-centric (nature centered). Member of the greater earth community. 



South---wild indegenous one. Loves emotions. Loves being human animal. Natural kinship with other species. Feels at home in other habitats. Instinctive. Sexual and erotic and loves being embodied.



East—innocent/sage. Equally innocent and wise. Pure clear sensing capacity. Experiences the big picture. Loves paradox. Appears as a sacred fool who doesn’t really care about the norms and rules of society. Trickster: the one who laughs at our extraordinary and weird human nature



West—muse beloved. Muse and inner beloved. Deeply imaginitive. Creative. Finds solutions and understandings that come from the depths. Loves the darkness. The unknown. Has a love affair with dreams. With unconscious and undoing and decaying of things. Death fully embraced. Most interested in the mysteries of the soul.



Plotking (Plot King? Hmmm…interesting…what is the plot?) says that we are born with a strength in only one of these areas but we must cultivate all of these facets of ourselves in order to be whole and healthy.



Every human is born with these capacities, but we must learn to cultivate them.







The father turned on another television. Monday night football. No quiet yet. Commercials. He wished for peace. He breathed in deeply, rediscovering the peace within himself. The news now, “a massacre in Texas.” The father shut his bedroom door, which distinctly muffled the noise of the television. Praise be for the closing of the threshold.



He wondered what Rumi was doing. What about Hafiz?



Yesterday I sent a message

As clear and steady as a star



You that turn stoniness to gold

Change me



I showed you the longing

And rocked my own chest

Like an infant

To hush it from crying



Undo your breast

Take me back to loves first place

Where we were in union



How much longer

Do I have to wander apart?



I will be quiet now and patient,

Waiting for you to turn and look.



As the writer transcribed the voice recording that he’d made from his trip to Bentonville the day before, he acknowledged the quiet coming from the house. Stillness. He listened in for a moment.



Dialogue and encounters were coming faster than the writer could recount them now. He took a position on the couch, once again facing North. He oriented himself to the kitchen in the adobe house. He imagined the house to his left and to the rear of his frontal plane as he sat on the couch in his father’s back room, facing North. Being oriented toward the Cardinal directions seemed new to him somehow, but he realized that was not entirely so.



Growing up at the crossroads of I-35 and I-40 in Oklahoma city had given him an understanding of the quadrants (Hello Ken! Mr Wilber! Praise be to Ken for the four quadrants I, WE, IT, ITS) Everything above I-40 was North. Everything below, South. Everything to the left of I-35 was West. And everything to the Right was East. 



Bentonville was to his right and forward of his frontal plane. Mexico was behind him. Kansas and Canada were directly ahead. 



Bill Plotkin said that every individual was oriented toward one of the Cardinal directions. He said that the opposite of the one that we are naturally oriented toward is the most difficult to develop. The writer wondered if the North was the direction that he was naturally oriented toward. 



Was it this generative and nurturing adult who had brought him here? It made sense to the man that that one facet which represents one’s natural strength would be the one that could sustain us as we became willing to allow those other natures to develop. 



The writer was no longer writing the book. He was now using the writing as a form. The form was a life raft to which he clung. A scaffolding around which he was allowing himself to encounter the Source. This North-facing-adult was relying on the intuition of the Generative-One to hold him while he was here at his father’s house.



“Is a visit to my grandmother’s in order?” he wondered. A visit to his last living grandparent? The one from which his Universal Glow had sprung.



He contacted Brian Neeley via email. 



Travis Erwin &lt;travisrwn1@gmail.com&gt;

9:56 PM (1 hour ago) 

 

to inkling405

 



Hey Brian!. I'm looking for some plate spinning lessons. I broke all my dishes! Do you have any time?



In Christ

Generative, nurturing adult



The middle-aged-man’s grandmother was in front on him, to the North as he sat on the couch in his father’s back room. “I like being me,” the MAM thought to himself. “What a strange way to live. He saw himself situated at this crossroads of this geographical region, this place where two large interstates converge perpindicularly, creating this quadrant in which he was now oriented. The house was quiet.



The father fed him: homemade minestrone soup seasoned with fresh basil and rosemary and packed with fresh carrots, yellow squash, onions, and a dark kidney shaped bean. 



The writer saw him and his father doing some travelling together. He could open some doors to his father to visit some people that he hadn’t seen in some time. His father had mentioned John Johnson, the father’s ex brother-in-law. The son allowed this vision to integrate. It was quiet in the room as he faced North and he was allowing a miracle to happen.



Was this generative nurturing adult wanting to connect the man? Was this generative nurturing adult reestablishing some connections?



The book. The narrative. The plot.



“Let’s write a story together, Dad. Would you like to help me write this book?”



What does it take to stop the generational curse? Can one go back in the generations and redeem the life that is left to live? 



The traveller could hear the drone of a large truck on Northwest Expressway. The traveller, when he was much younger had once written a truckin’ song that his extended family requested him to play at events.



“I remember that look on her face

In that big ol sideview mirror on my rig

The silver eagle on the hood

Just looked at me and grinned

He knew we were on the road again

But now there’s rain

I roll on skippin’ on into san antone

Now there’s rain

I roll on because san antone is home

That ol’ bird dog she’s a talkin

Steel belt’s hummin’ dulce harmony…

Sweet rain sows my seed for home

And I can feel it every turn

Of the wheel and the road and the numbers on my dash

So I roll on in the rain…



The man picked up his guitar and tried to bring all the lyrics back but that’s all that he could remember.



The man had an appointment to visit the Dr on January 6th. This appointment would extend his medical leave at work. The Doctor needed to confirm that he was unable to perform his duties. He wondered if he could do the appointment over the phone if he was still away by then. He was still employed. 



