Day 10 

12: 39AM



The middle aged man, the son, the father sat, facing North once again. Samuel Barber’s Adagio for strings played in his ears, the sacred sound of his resurrection. He sat in his mother’s home, which in the previous hours was filled with the joyful sounds of his growing and grown children, those children who had arrived at his house early that morning bearing gifts, Christmas gifts which they had brought to their father, the man who had walked away from their mutual home just twenty months ago, the man who now lived at the Adobe style house with the saltillo tile in the living room and entry way, the man who now sat facing North on his mother’s couch which had been turned into his bed for tonight.



The adagio having ended, he sat, breathing in the silence. As he read through the first chapters of his draft he was overcome by two things---first, the gravity of the presence of his own being that he felt in the universal story of his life story that was emerged before him and the connectedness to the ALL that he experienced in this witness--and second, the immensity of work that the draft would still require in order to prepare it suitably for you, dear reader. The man got arose from his seat on the couch and moved about the house.



The man repositioned the floor mat in the bathroom. He lowered himself to his knees, assuming a deep kneel. His body was folded, his head partially on the mat, partially on the cold floor tile. He allowed the I AM to be, or rather, he witnessed the I AM, the Being-ness of this consciousness. The man was grateful for this form which, in the past, he had called the water-droplet position, sometimes imagining himself a drop of dew resting on a blade of grass. He was grateful that, as his mind wandered, this pose reminded him of his intention. As he awoke from the wanderings of his mind, the pose reminded him of the potential of simply-being. And this is how it came to be that the man kneeled on the bathroom floor of his mother’s home that Friday evening in all gratefulness for what he had experienced during the course of the day, experiencing the great What-IS.



The gifts that his children brought to him that morning made him very glad. His children stacked the gifts on the kitchen table in the Adobe house on avenue Q. He opened the smallest gift first, as it was at the top of the pyramid. It was small and light. 

“It’s a zippo lighter,” he said jokingly. 

The small package was actually much lighter than a zippo lighter would have been. The father tore the paper and opened the tiny box. What he found inside was a small piece of unusually shaped stained-wood. The small piece of wood had a hole in the middle big enough for his middle finger. This was a minimalist gift, given to him by his son, its purpose--to hold the pages of a book apart as the reader held the book in a single hand. The father, knowing the difficulty of reading in bed while trying to hold open both sides of a book with two hands understood the importance of the gift. And as he sat on his mother’s couch now, turning it over and over in his hands, he was grateful for the gift from his son. He was grateful for its simplicity. He was grateful for its function. He was grateful that his son knew that he loved to read. He accepted the strange gift. He loved his son.



The next gift was housed in a significantly larger box, it was from his youngest daughter. “Oh, I know exactly what this is,” the father said. “But I’m not going to say,” another attempt at a joke. He loved to hear his children laugh. As the lid came off the box, he saw a treasure trove. There was a wood patterned capo, just what he had asked for when his youngest had inquired about what he wanted for Christmas. There was a guitar strap with decorated with golden suns. And, the gift that most impressed the father, held in it’s own cloth bag, a gorgeous leather bound journal, which looked like it was deserving to carry a sacred message. Facing his youngest daughter, the father held the book out in front of him in both hands and bowed. “I present to you the new gospel,” he said in a lofty tone. This time his children actually laughed and the father was well pleased. His youngest daughter had often impressed him with her generosity. He was powerfully moved by her ability to find gifts that mattered to him. He was grateful for her thoughtfulness. He was grateful for her.



The next present, the largest box, had functioned as the base of the Christmas pyramid. The father casually reached out to pick it up but it was very heavy. He repositioned himself so that he could lift the dense package from the table. He tore the paper from the Amazon box which was taped shut. He remembered that his pocket knife was clipped on to his right pocket. He grabbed the pocket knife and flipped it open, as he had learned to do as a young police officer. He cut the tape and opened the box. Inside was something that he had mentioned to his oldest daughter that he wanted while they made the cheesecake to accompany their Christmas taco-Tuesday meal. It was a weighted blanket! The daughter had already, in fact, ordered it for him as they were preparing the meal together. The eldest daughter and her husband were well pleased with themselves, as they should have been. 



Once again, in an attempt to be the cause of his children’s laughter, the father removed the weighted blanket from its packaging and proceded to lie down in a supine position right there on the hard kitchen tile. He pulled the blanket up o his chin, and his children did laugh with their father, and the father was very glad indeed.



The father had truly not expected such thoughtful and generous gifts. And so it came to pass that the family, having completed the exchange of their Christmas gifts piled in their two little blue cars and headed for the home of the children’s grandmother.



The first several hours of the journey were covered by dense fog and light rain. The oldest daughter rode with the father. She mentioned that she had been listening to the Prince of Egypt soundtrack. The father asked her if she would play it. And so it was that the father and his oldest daughter drove East, that day toward Oklahoma City on the same roads that the father had hitchhiked two weeks before, listening to music that contained the story of Moses. And the father heard his own story in these songs. And the father laughed and wept for joy as he saw his story in this universal story. And he heard the depth, and darkness, and mystery in those melodies that day.



The father was able to share the depths of his heart with his daughter that day, and his daughter had a heart to hear her father, and the father was very glad. And the daughter, although she was generally a very quiet person, also shared her heart with her father. And the father felt more known by his daughter. And the father felt that he knew his oldest daughter a little more.



The daughter shared her grief at her father’s timing, for the father had dissolved his own marriage just one month prior to her marriage. The father was able to apologize that he had heard her. He asked her how he could make it right. The daughter said that she was no longer angry, although she had been very angry with the him at the time.



And the family stopped to eat at Subway, all four of them, and they laughed at each other’s ridiculous jokes. It was a hearty laughter that resounded througout the Subway in the gas station somewhere along the foggy highway which lead them East toward the children’s grandmother and their belated Christmas celebration.



After the meal, the son rode with the father. His son spoke quickly and with much energy and in elevated tones, inspired by the life-changing learning experience that he was having at the University in Albuquerque. And, for a time, the son and the father seemed to have a difficult time in relating, because it seemed that the son’s studies had changed his point of view and the common ground that they had shared months ago as the father had visited him seemed to have shifted underneath them. The son, like the father was being folded over in the blueberry batter. He was spiraling upward, leaving form behind him. And the son was able to express that he was concerned for the father’s welfare in his latest decisions to drop his nets and surrender to the flow. The son was honest with the father in saying that he was not ready to go with the flow because he had much to accomplish in life. And the father was able to affirm the young man, and assure him that he was okay right where he was. The father had confidence in his son’s capacity to be true to his Self. The father knew that he would find his own way in his own time. The father assured the son that it was okay that the way things were different between them than they were the last time they had spoken. And the father was able to give his son the blessing that is irrevocable, because the blessing is really just an acknowledgement of that which is already present in the heart of the son. And the father loved his son. And the father did not need the son to be anything to him that he was unable to be. And the father breathed into the present moment. And the father was pleased that his father and his father’s father and all the father’s before him had done there part to get him and his son into this car together today. Praise be to the ancestors as they have empowered us in our journey up the great snake, the one who spirals into the infinite multi-verse.



And so it was that the family arrived at the house of the Universal mother that day. The son and his children parked their cars along the curb of her home on that cloudy, Oklahoma day. And the Universal Mother had prepared for them a great feast. Crackers and cheeses were laid out on the island in her kitchen. Nuts and grapes and candies were also there in the kitchen. The hospitality of the Universal Mother was palpable in all their hearts, and the son gave much thanks for his heart was filled with gratitude, for the joy of the son’s salvation had been restored unto him. It was in this way that the family rejoiced in each other’s presence long into the night.



The Mother had prepared spaghetti, which had been simmering all day, just as she had done long ago, when the son lived with her as a boy, long before the grandchildren were even though of. The Mother made a sacred salad with many textures and flavors and a special dressing. The mother prepared a sourdough bread with butter and garlic which she broiled to a perfect shade of golden brown in her oven. And so it was that she and her husband and the son and all the children sat around the long table that night and laughed and ate until they were full. And the son became very sleepy.



The son, giving thanks to his mother for the meal that she’d prepared, got up from the table --even without excusing himself as his mother had taught him to do, but still with much thanks in his heart) and went over to the couch where he covered himself with the weighted blanket, closed his eyes and allowed himself to fall into a sleep as he listened to the laughing and talking of his family. He rose an hour and rejoined the festivities that were still under way.



The Children were happy, and their laughing and joking continued. There were gifts exchanged. There were trivia games. And there were somersaults. And there were handstands in which sister helped sister. And there was wrestling. And there was tickling. And there were pictures taken and digital video recored by the father who wanted to have something by which to remember this moment.



And then there was a slow settling down that began. Faces were washed and exfoliated. Teeth were brushed. Pajamas were worn. Hugs were given. Smiles were exchanged. Good nights were said. The oldest daughter and her husband retired to their room. The two youngest children retired to theirs. The mother and her husband went to their bed too. And the son was left alone in this sacred space on his mother’s couch, this son who was making peace with a Universe who was out to help him.



And so it came to pass that the writer found himself sitting on the couch, the one who recounted all the joy that had transpired on that twenty-seventh day of December in two-thousand-and-nineteen, that year of our Lord, exactly one year after the middle-aged-man had admitted himself to the hospital and been transported by ambulance to Sunrise Mental Health Hospital in Roswell New Mexico. 



But, on that day in December of two-thousand-and-nineteen the middle-aged-man was not in the hospital. He was well. He was able to communicate to his two oldest children of how he had calmly declared an emergency, the emergency of the failing engines. He was able to describe to his two oldest children how he had seen the field below him, the one he had bought so many years ago. He was able to describe to them how he had calmly piloted the plane, in some kind of controlled landing, to set it down in that very field that he had purchased, the same field that contained the treasure. He was able to explain to his two oldest that he was a disciple of Christ, and that he was no longer able to hold the form that their earthly father had maintained all those years. He was able to describe the sufferings that he had experienced in a way that they seemed to understand on some level, although the father felt somewhat certain that he was not trying to justify himself in any of his actions. He could not know what his children heard when he spoke. He could not truly understand what they saw when they looked at him. But, the father knew how he had come to the place where he was now. He knew exactly how he had arrived in that field, in all truth and in all honesty. 



The prayer that he had prayed at the cabin in the Lincoln National Forest had been answered. The man had seen the joy of his salvation restored. His heart was full of praise and thanksgiving. He was moving in and out of form. He sat now at his mother’s house in the quiet of the night, the children that he had raised and the husband of his daughter were sleeping in their rooms. His mother and her husband were sleeping in theirs. He felt a satisfaction that had little to do with certitude as he sat there with his fingers curled over the home row of his laptop which rested on the weighted blanket, that same gift that he had said that he wanted even after the gift was already on its way to his daughter so that she could wrap it.



He paused frequently. He looked around the room. He placed his hands together, acknowledging the Life that was being lived through him. He placed his thumbs on his forehead. He bowed his head toward his heart. He allowed himself to come back to the I AM. He gave room for Life to have its say through him.



The man was making peace with a Universe that was out to help him. He closed his laptop, acknowledging the North. He placed his laptop on the end table by the couch. He went to the bathroom. He returned to the couch. He turned out the lamp. He pulled his weighted blanket over his body. He lay on his back and closed his eyes, giving thanks, giving praise, acknowledging the One Source. He allowed himself to rest. He allowed himself to be the great I AM.



Day 10

5:13AM



The single drop of dew rested upon the wide blade of grass in the morning sunlight, the yellow light of the sun seeming to emanate from the drop of dew itself. In perfect stillness of the morning the water droplet sat on the semi-rigid growth which sprung from the earth, rooted in the soil. The drop of dew and the light which appeared to shine from its being rested there, in the coolness of the morning mountain air. A stream gurgled just feet away, a world of moving water cascading down the mountain by way of the inclined earth, all the water, together, eddying in places, carrying sticks, forming froth, tumbling over small water falls, splashing up on the edges of the bank sometimes. 



But the single drop of water which rested on the wide blade of grass was in motion too, inside there was movement that would have been undetectable to the human eye. Inside the single drop, which was maintained only by the surface tension created by the atmoshphere and the water itself. This surface tension is what maintained the rounded form of this single water droplet, while the fluid contained inside this pressure bubble was still in movement. And so this single water droplet sat by the stream of running water. 



Did this water droplet have desire? Did he wish anything? You may wonder, “Did he wish to join the great stream that moved so freely down the mountain? Did this single water droplet wish to join the One-ness of the water in the stream? Did he wish to be free from his sedentary position on the blade of grass? 



Can a water droplet wonder? 

Can a water droplet want?

What was in the heart of this little water droplet?

Maybe we should ask him?



“Little water droplet, my brother!”

“You, with the heart of gold!”

“Little brother! I see the sun shining in your heart.

“I see you sitting on your blade of grass.”

You are not in motion as your brothers are

But I see the movement within you

I see the sun shining from deep within your being

Do you wish to join the one-ness of the flow?

Do you wish to lose yourself in their?

Do you wish to run down the mountain with your brothers

And sisters?



The water droplet responded



“I wish only to the will of my father”

If it pleases him for me to sit here

On this blade of grass

If it pleases him for the morning sun

To shine down upon me

And take me up into the sky

Then I am pleased

If it pleases my father

That I run down the mountain

With my brothers and sisters

Then I am well pleased, my dear friend



“But now, please,” said the tiny drop of water

Who rested in the morning sunlight on the wide blade of grass

“Please, stay with me here for a moment”

“And let us ask for the will of the father.”

“Together we will beseech the father,

To know his will for us today.

Come, sit, my friend

Rest with me for a moment

As the stream flows by over there



And then, the tiny drop, in all its wisdom, prayed.

The tiny drop prayed and waited 

For the tiny drop knew that he was not separate from the stream

The tiny drop knew no alienation in himself

As the sun shined from his center

He knew that his current state of being

Was just for this moment

He knew the story of the thunderhead

He knew that he was the thunder head

He understood the mystery of togetherness

He felt in his very being the joy of his salvation



And so, dear reader, let us sit for a moment

With this wisdom

Let us sit here for a moment with our wise brother

The water drop who knew

That he was no alone

The water droplet who watched the stream

And who was the stream

Come, dear reader, let us sit with our brother

Sit with us here for a moment

Become a water droplet with me

Let us wait for the will of the father.



Day 10

5:48 AM



A young man sat in his senior English class taught by Mrs Hubbard, a weathered woman who recited the Canterbury tales with deep conviction with twists of her tongue and gutteral conviction. But today they were not studying the Canterbury Tales. Today they read Walt Whitman. And today the boy understood. He saw it there right on the page, a meaning so deep that he was compelled to memorize this line:



“I lean and loaf at my ease, observing a spear of summer grass.”



The single line of Whitman contained all he needed to know that day. The young man was moved, or maybe his constant anxious motion was arrested for a brief moment that day in his senior English class led by the tanned and sun-spotted aging woman. This woman who somehow conveyed her love, her passion for these words as she stood up there facing the class, risking the tying of her tongue and the shedding of her tears. She was a tough old woman, tough enough to watch these children come and go. Tough enough to watch these children fall asleep on their desks, and whisper to one another about who-knows-what while she stood up there in front of them, a willing vessel herself, willing to share the un-sharable to a bunch of dazed and confused seventeen and eighteen year olds.



And so it came to pass that the middle-aged man came to remember his old friend Walt, and his old teacher Mrs. Hubbard. “How long ago had that been,” the man asked himself. He counted the years. “over twenty seven years ago now,” he thought. “twenty-seven years.”



There was a stirring in his mothers house. He heard the voice of his youngest daughter. He heard the bathroom door open, and the toilet flush. He held the silence of this moment like a treasure. He felt each breath like the last kiss. 



He woke up this morning with Tim on his mind. He wondered if he’d be welcomed in his home. He wondered if he could stand in the presence of the older prophet, his old mentor and teacher that the middle-aged man had called during his second journey with the medicine, the one he’d called Chief, the distress call before the distress call that opened this story.



The middle-aged-man had reached out to Tim with minimal response. He’d called him, “how many times,” the writer wondered, “was it once or twice? Only once I think.” He’d left Tim a simple message. “Hi Tim, I am holding form. Call me when you have a chance.” But Tim had never called. And he was very slow in response to the middle-aged-man’s texts. And when he did respond it was not the type of response that seemed to welcome any further contact. But the middle-aged-man continued to reach out occasionally.



Their text exchange had looked like this: (The middle age man found himself afraid to look, afraid of what he might discover about himself if he looked into this history)



November 26th 

Disciple: “That all of them may be one…” John 17:21…Goo morning, Chief!...I want to spend some time with you. I will come and play music wherever you are! LoL…Or, I will come and sit quietly wherever you are! I just want to be in your presence, Chief!



Tim: Ok ill let you know when I have a meeting



And then, a week-and-a-half later as the middle-aged-man was walking away from his job…



December 5th

Disciple: Hey Tim. I put my two weeks notice in at work. I am sowing myself back into the soil. I have no plan except to let God do what God will. Can I come for a visit? My last day of work is the 19th. I have a vision of sitting in your living room.



Tim: I’m leaving town tomorrow not sure what day im returning yet. Be home for Christmas. Not sure quitting you job is a good idea. Can you just take a few weeks off for he holidays?



Disciple: It’s already done…I’ll look forward to seeing you I’m not sure it’s a good idea either. I jus know that I went as far as I possibly could I do not have a grace to be in this profession any longer. It is dishonest of me to stay…Go’s will work with me in this I’m sure. I have prayed that everything that is false in me will be burned up…Have safe travels. I wish you well, my friend.



And then ten minutes later, the middle aged man apparently feels that he needs Tim to understand more about what is going on…the distress call continued like this:



Disciple: My “mental illness” and my “calling” are intertwined in a way that I cannot understand. I have been asking for help for years now. I’ve been to 2 emergency rooms, 1 psychiatric unit, and 2 treatment centers. I’e been asking for help my entire adult life, Tim. I’ve been trying to calmly declare an emergency for weeks now. I have taken this as far as I can come. I’m broken down Tim, and I’m trying to answer my calling in the middle of this. I need help.



I’m asking God to care for me now. I’m asking God to care for my family…I have gone through the appropriate channels. They put me on psych meds in me that kill my spirit…I’m at the end. I got baptized the Sunday after I talked to you I am doing my absolute best to surrender my life and will to God. So Tim, please just aks our Father to intervene here. I’ve devoted the last year of my life to prayer and meditation. I’ve been listening. I’ve been following. I’ve been praying every day. I’ve been offering myself to God…The intesity of pain that I experience in my being when I go into these depressions is more than I can work through in this job. I cannot continue caring for others when I am sick in my spirit like this…Can you hear what I am saying? Can you feel what I am talking about? I’m not blaming anyone or anything any moe. I’m just hurting beyond what I can bare in the workplace…



1 hour passes



Disciple: okay something happened. My boss didn’t turn in my 2 weeks notice yet. But she says that I’m not fit to continue in my duties. So I’m reaching out to HR and maybe declaring some kind of medical emergency. I may get fired. Maybe I can get disability. I don’t know



Tim: I understand…Praying…



Disciple: Thank you



And then, six days later



December 12th



Disciple: Hey Tim! There is a chance that I might get my old job and my office back, teaching at the University. I’m giving this hope back to God this morning. I’m giving thanks to God. I’m grateful that I have seen the face of Christ again in my life. Asking God to open and shut the doors, even the ones that are attractive to me



No reply from Tim



December 16th



Disciple: Tim. I have made a deeper connection with our father. I am sensing the oneness with our father….I’ve had another profound vision of the universal Christ. I am also connecting again with the person of Jesus (Yeshua)…I’ve had the validity of my recent decisions confirmed in my heart…Tim, I accept you just as you are. I accept our friendship/relationship just as it is. I look forward to hearing your voice again and/or sitting in your presence. You show me the Christ, Tim. I am grateful for your prayers. I sense them being effective in my life. I sens your presence in my life on a daily basis…Thank you….Call me when you have the grace and the time…



Tim’s disciple sends him a song that he wrote about the Universal Christ



No response from Tim



December 19th

Disciple: Yes. We are waking up together, Chief…Good morning (blushing smiley face emoticon)…I am the son with the crazy wisom who will not go away…today I have not gone away, Chief…I cannot make any promises about tomorrow…



Tim: It’s a sunshinny spiffy day today Travis



Disciple: Oh wow….Thanks man (blushing smiley face emoticon)…



The disciple sends his Chief another Song “Time to wake up by Mike Love



Disciple: Do I need permission to be the son who is not afraid of his own shadow?



Tim: Nope



Disciple: I thank you for acknowledging (me). I accept as little or as much as your life can afford. I acknowledge your humanity. I acknowledge the suffering through which you have come to know Christ. I give you thanks for the Life that you have freely shared with me.



Tim: Welcome



And that was their last exchange which had been nine days ago.



And as the middle-aged-man awoke that morning at his mother’s house, Tim was on his heart. And it was in this way that the man found himself that morning, once again kneeling on the floor of the bathroom in the spirit of the dew drop. It is in that way that he found himself at one with the father, saying, “What time is it father?” asking the father which dwelled within him for clarity of direction. It is in this way that he sought the wisdom of the dew drop, the one who was not afraid to stay on the blade of grass, the one who was not afraid to evaporate in the invisible air, the one who was not afraid to fall from the wide blade of grass and sink into the earth, the one who was not afraid.



As the middle-aged-man read the texts that he and Tim had exchanged he sensed a desperation in himself. He sensed exactly what he’d been anxious to face as he had started writing this morning. He faced an energy in him, or maybe an emptiness within himself. What was it that he sensed? Was it the little boy who had often not been held as much or often or in the ways that he needed? Was it the father-shaped-whole in his own heart that he was sensing. 



The middle-aged-man wondered why Tim seemed to be withholding himself. The middle-aged-man had been wondering why this was for weeks now, and he had not known how to write about it. He wondered if he would find the courage to reach out to Tim while he was here in Oklahoma City, with Tim just right across town. He wondered if he should reach out to Tim. He had been without Tim for ten years, but now he longed to sit with him again. 



The middle-aged-man shows himself to you now, dear reader. The middle-aged-man who now sat in his mother’s living room. His oldest daughter was awake. The man had shared with her his writing about the opening of the Christmas presents and the Prince of Egypt caravan the day before. The man’s mother sat across the living room, warming herself by the gas fire, her own tablet in her lap.



Three generations sat there in the mother’s living room. The mother’s oldest typing. The father’s oldest thumbing through facebook. The middle aged man decided to disengage from his screen and enjoy his family’s presence while he was able. He flipped the screen down and sat there in the half-lotus, on his mother’s couch in the presence of these two most imprortant women. 7:05AM



Day 10

8:45AM



Disciple: Good morning, Tim. I have arrived in OKC. I seek your company. I seek your friendship. I pray that we can find a way to make an exchange while I am here. I demand nothing from you. I seek your life giving words and company. I offer my life to ou. I am prepared to accept as much or as little time and Presence as you have to offer. I will be available after Monday morning. Peace to you, my old friend.



The disciple sat in his mother’s living area, listening to his oldest daughter and the Universal Mother prepare a breakfast of bacon, eggs, hash browns, and toast. He was releasing the outcome of his most recent outreach to his old friend. He knew that a response in the negative may be difficult to accept. But, this was his calling, just as he had texted his ex-wife, asking for her friendship, he now reached out to his old friend, Tim, whom he felt was making himself distant for some reason. He was ready to face the great What-Is. Or so he hoped.



Day 10 

10:20



And so it went that as Lived its way through the man that morning that he sang many songs with and for his children. He sang for his mother. He sang for his son-in-law. He shared with his son in law the message of the serpent, the spiral dynamic. 



Who is the enemy?

Satan?

Love your enemy?

Love Satan?



Yes, son. That is where we find ourselves, in this impossible situation.



And he rejoiced in his mother’s Christmas Cactus and in her african violets which flowered purple. 



He shared with his son-in-law the secrets of Rumi and Hafiz and their whirling dervish, the passionate love affair that they shared with the Creator and the Creation, all in one and one is all. 



So it was that he waited patiently for the return of the text that might never come. So it was that he acknowledged his own insecurities around the man whom he had once called his father in the Spirit. His teacher. His mentor, His spiritual father. So it was that he prepared himself for the sacred breaking of the heart, and so it was that he communed with God as he had extended his friendship, once again to this man who may or may not be interested or willing to meet with him.



The truth was that Tim had never done anything to hurt the middle-aged-man. Whenever the man showed up at one of Tim’s meetings just months ago, Tim had immediately invited him to participate in his ceremony, asking the man to retrieve his guitar from his car. So what was this fear that the man was facing around his old friend, Tim and his family.



The middle-aged man had often feared, in the last ten years of his absence from Tim, that he had been an unholy influence on his family, that he had brought something unwelcome into his home. The man feared that he was unacceptable in the eyes of Tim’s God. The man feared that he was feared by Tim and his family, or he feared that as Tim knew about the man’s association with the medicine, that somehow Tim had disqualified him from participation in Tim’s form. These are some of the fears that the middle-aged man was aware of in his being. These are the fears that the man faced as he sat, facing North into the gas fire, sitting on the couch which was his bed in his mothers bed, making the clicking of keyboard sounds, the sound that once belonged to his wife.



The man found himself at a crossroads in his thoughts about Tim. “Will he accept me or reject me?” thought the man. What does a man do when his very name is the signifier (am I using that word right? That’s a word that he had learned from his wife as she became a philosopher of literature) of the crossroads. Was that correct what the man was not witnessing in himself? Was it true that he was the one who stands at the crossroads? Years ago, on a national guard trip, he had been at a mall where he there was a man selling bookmarks with names and their meanings. He remembered now that his name had meant “at the crossroads”. 



What is the function of the man who stands at the crossroads? What had the man learned about this recently? Wasn’t this a thread throughout his recent recorded experiences? Experiencing the BOTH /AND. This is what the Spirit had been showing him to experience when he found himself standing at the fork in the road, presented with the binary. Maybe this wasn’t about acceptance or rejection from Tim. Maybe it was about something different. Maybe it was BOTH/AND. 



What had Christ done when faced with the ultimate rejection that lead to his death? When the christ was nailed to the crossroads, what had happened. He took it all in. All the pain and suffering he took in. 



“Am I ready to accept rejection from this man who was once a father to me. Am I ready to be corrected by this man? Am I ready to take that in? What about acceptance from Tim? Are yo ready for that? The man looked back at his work. His through-line was stretching thin. Would it snap? That’s always a possibility. Some of these deaths that we die go so deep that they blind us. 



The writer’s phone rang in his pocket. He stood up from his sitting position on the couch in his mother’s living room and reached in his left pocket to retrieve his phone. It was a California number. It was Dave Workman, of muse harbor publishing. The middle-aged-man briefly shared the joy of his current experience with Dave—the joy he was having with his children and his mother, and the joy he was experiencing as he was exploring his writing. Dave was going to a princess palace to attend his grandaughter’s birthday party. They agreed to meet on the square in Bentonville to discuss whatever it was that was happening between them. The middle-aged man held it all loosely, letting go of the outcome, a practice he was very familiar with.



As he sat in front of a laptop, he heard his phone announce a text message. He wondered if it was Tim. He wondered how long he would wait to see where the message had come from. Was it Tim? Did it matter? What was it that hung in the balance here? He was not sure. The man was out in the world making himself available, trying to participate in the resurrection that was taking place in his life. The man was out there in the world, learning how to move at the speed of life. He was learning how to say “yes” to what was available. He was learning how to accept. He was learning how to risk, in just the way that he had risked when he saved his life by leaving home twenty months ago.



The man avoided his phone, not out of dread, but because he was actually enjoying this suspense. He was immersed in this story. He was also observing this story. It really mattered to him, how this interaction with Tim went. It really mattered to him how his interaction with Dave and Eileen in Bentonville went. It really mattered to him how the lunch with his father went. Life was out to help him, but that did not mean that he would not suffer. That did not mean that he would not have doors closed in his face. That did not mean that he would not have to deal with hurt feelings. That did not mean that everything would go his way. It simply meant that Life was there, ready to help him through the ups and downs. Life was there, ready to help him accept himself through whatever came. Life was creative, loving, kind, and incredibly intelligent, and he was saying “yes” to life living through him. Yes, he was curious about the text that had arrived minutes ago. 



He felt into his body. He made peace with the What-Is. He imagined that Schroedinger’s cat was over ther in the form of a text message. He asked his brainy son about Schroedinger’s cat. Strangely enough his son did not know. That was strange since his son seemed to know about most things. The man knew that there was a cat in a box. And whether that cat was dead or alive depended on something. And he knew that the cat in Schroedingers’ box was somehow both dead and alive until the box was opened. That was the extent of the knowledge the man had about Schroedinger’s cat. He hoped it was enough.



Right now, the message that the man assumed was from Tim was stored in the hard drive on the man’s phone. That message contained some kind of information. The message was a response to a request that the man made. The response was either in the negative or in the positive. But maybe it wasn’t Tim’s response that determined the man’s future. “Of course,” thought the man to himself, “That seems to be obvious.” But was it obvious, wrote the writer. Yes, it was obvious to the intellect, but how familiar with this was the man’s heart? 



The time for discussing this was coming to a close. The man knew how to live life, or rather, he knew that was committed to having life lived through him. There was no amount of preparing for the worst that he could do which could stop him from hurting if is friend rejected him. And there was no certainty that the man would not experience rejection in one form or another even if his friend’s response was in the positive. There were so many opportunities for the man to experience rejection and suffering along the path that he had chosen. He would be knocking on doors and fishing for men the rest of his life. He would trust that life was taking care of him.



The man’s oldest daughter sat down on the leather chair across the room. She looked lovely. “Are we ready?” she said. “I need just another couple of minutes said the man.” He was going out shopping with his family. The man closed his lap top, acknowledged the One-ness by bowing his head toward his heart, and he walked across the room to retrieve his phone.

 11:20 AM







5:41PM



“And so it came to pass that in and through all things the middle aged man truly came to be born again.”



Day 10

9:38PM



The writer sat in a reclining chair in one corner of the living room. 



The dying author fell asleep in the chair in the corner of the room.



The dying author woke up in the chair in the living room of his mother’s home



As he woke, groggy in the chair, the dying author was aware of the shower shoes that had kept him from coming in contact with the floor that day when Drill Sgt Hilliard had yelled at the soldiers in the shower. The shower shoes were the only thing between him and the tile floor as Drill Sergeant Hilliard screamed at the young men in the shower that day in Late May of 1996. That thin layer of spongy rubber, the only thing between him and the floor.



The weighted blanket held the dying author as he sat in the chair in the living room by the large window with the view to his mother’s backyard. The back yard was dark. It was night. A deep exhaustion had come over the dying author. He was scheduled to meet with Dave and Eileen tomorrow.



Tim had finally texted him later in the day, the text he’d thought was him earlier had been someone else.



The dying author was unable to form complete thoughts as he lay reclined in the chair in the corner of his mother’s living room by the window with the view of his mother’s back yard. He had just woke from his second nap of the evening and still, exhaustion was all that he felt. 



The author bought two bibles earlier in the day. He had them engraved with gold names, one for his mother, and one for his Self. It was a miracle of spiral dynamics that he had bought a bible for himself as he could never have imagined that he would ever buy another bible again in his life. He wondere if he should have had another name beside the one that he went by inscribed in the bible. “Perhaps the word, ‘flow’ instead of the name his parents had given him,” he thought. “Flo, a female name, short for Florence,” he wondered.



The college football game played in the next room



There was a beautiful young man with long flowing hair playing quarter back for one of the teams. They kept showing studio pictures of him holding a football with his long hair and smile. He was a gorgeous young man. The dying author’s youngest daugher said, “He looks like a lion, Dad. That man looks like a lion.” The writer agreed. He did look like a Lion, like a gorgeous lion. The middle-aged-man wondered how a young man could look so much like a football player, and so much like a beautiful woman, and so much like a Lion at the same time.



His friend Tim was sick, but he said, “I look forward to seeing you…” The middle-aged-man wondered about his insecurities surrounding his friend Tim.



An old friend from highschool called the middle-aged-man in response to a text he’d sent. It was the leader of the young man’s band from highschool. They made tentative plans to get together on Monday. 



The writer’s son had just completed a course entitled the Legacy of Darwin’s great idea in his first semester at University. As a result, Darwin and Richard Dawkins were very present in much of the conversation that evening. The writer’s mother got out her copy of The Selfish Gene. She had written a paper over the book in her studies for her master’s degree. The writer’s son and his mother talked intensely of evolution. Intensely was just about the only way that his son ever talked, which reminded him a lot of himself.



The writer saw his mother in a different light that evening. He saw a facet of his mother that he’d never been aware of. She was educated in a way that he’d not understood. She held space gracefully with the intelligent young man, the writer’s son. She was the Universal Glow. They had once called her G-Lo, short for grandma Lorri, and a parody of J-Lo (Jennifer Lopez). But today, the writer had seen her as the “Glow”. And now the “Universal Glow.”



The writer had no through-line tonight. He felt unable to sense a flow.



He longed for the football game in the next room to end and for silence to fall upon the house. In that moment, he longed for the silence and the focus that he found at the adobe house.



The middle-aged-man called his friend Dan. He found himself held in their friendship, in the common language of the restoration that had been occurring in their lives. The two friends encouraged one another as they gave thanks for the miracles that they were each witnessing in and around their own lives and the miracles that they were seeing because of one another. They acknowledged the presence of God in their midst. They acknowledged the weave, the fabric of the cosmos that held them. And the man was grateful for his friend in this way. 



The man shared with Dan how he had bought a bible for himself and for his mother that day, a miracle of the great snake which spirals upward, the spiral dynamics, the DNA of human consciousness which moves, ever outward into the great multiverse. Today the man was able to say, “Thank you, Jesus,” a truly strange miracle in the life of a man who had forsaken that name years and years ago (just as Petra had) as he understood that the man from Nazareth was never called Jesus (It was something more like Yeshua). But, that morning, as the man spoke those words, “thank you, Jesus,” there was a simple acknowledgement of his own roots, a nod toward his place of material origin, a nod toward the form which had first held his conscious recognition of the Christ, the form that he would walk away from in order to find an all inclusive Cosmic Christ.



The man gave thanks for the Universal Mother, Maryanne Fite, who had said yes to him and his family all those years and years ago as they were buying that field, the field which the pilot had set that plane down in. He set that plane down, the one with the failing engines. He set down in the field that he had recognized as the one he had purchased all those years ago. He and his young family poured those Sonic drinks out onto the winter wheat which had been planted by the young man and his father-in-law. The family of 3 stood in the field of winter wheat. The young family who loved one another so much. The young family who would soon be 5. 5 would be their count. The husband and wife would hold that form for enough time for the children could grow up. And then the husband and wife would let go of that form in order that new form could be born. They would experience a death and a resurrection. 



Thanks be to the God of our youth. Praise be to the Snake, the one who deceives us all that we may experience life. Praise be to the one who deceives, our enemy, whom we love. Dare I say, Praise be to Satan? Praise be to God. Praise be to the Source. Praise be to the Christ who is the ALL and every Thing. In Christ there is no Holy or Profane, all is the Sacred. All is the miracle. There is no matter or non-matter that is held together without the All. Praise the all inclusive. Give thanks for the theosis, the realization of the One-ness in ourselves. Praise be to the Poet who speaks forth that which is not as though it was. Praise be to the Wios, the One who walks the earth.



The middle-aged-man had a sense that he needed to ask Tim about the Wios. He googled the word but found nothing. The man remembered Tim, years ago, talking about the Wios (the mature son who walks the earth).



The house was quiet now. It was 11:46PM on Saturday night. He had finally made it to Oklahoma City, the pilgrimage that had started some time ago now when he put on his backpack, made a cardboard sign, strapped a mandolin to his pack, put on his yellow elk skin glove, and walked out of the college-cow-town by the strength of his own two legs and back.



He sat in the stillness, breathing it in. He made his way to the bathroom, where he arranged the blue mat and assumed his North facing position as a water droplet. “What time is it, father?” he asked. He remained there in that position until he found Life moving him forward to where he was not sure. He would try to get some more sleep. He had a long car ride to Bentonville tomorrow to meet with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) face to face. “It would be nice to get some good sleep,” he thought to himself.”



Praise be to the One who gives sleep. Praise be to the One-Salvation. Amen.



