Day 13

12:20AM



Who was this man who showed up in Bentonville? What had happened there? He was curious. He decided to change the time on his phone from mountain to central time. It was 12:24AM now, he was on day 13 of this real-time writing project, which was his life. Day 13 of a project that would continue until the day he died. “But what about this particular project?” he wondered, as his father slept in the West bedroom.



Ever since he left Bentonville the day before, the writing project felt threatened. “Nothing that is real can be threated. Nothing that is unreal exists,” he heard the course in miracles saying. 

“Okay,” responded the man in the hooded olive jacket, “then I suppose that whatever is real about this writing project cannot be threatened, and therefore whatever in me feels threatened by the interaction that I had with Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) is free to pass away. In fact I ask that God (Life) would help me to surrender whatever falseness it is that is feeling threatened by whatever it was that happened yesterday with those two as we sat in the Pressroom eating chicken.



Then, the man found a text that Tim had sent much earlier in the evening:



Tim: let’s meet at IHOP on NW Expressway between Rockwell and Council at 9am.



The middle-aged-man again noticed himself feeling threatened. He was concerned that Tim had not wanted to meet at his home. Always before the man had an open invitation to his home. He knew Tim’s home intimately. He had even cleaned his refrigerator once. But now, IHOP? He wondered if it was because Tim knew about the mushrooms. 



And so it came to pass that the writer was in touch with his fears and insecurities as he sat in one of the most dangerous places in the world, his father’s house. And as he reached out to new friends in Dave and Eileen. And as he reached out to an old friend in Tim. 



“Can I allow myself to be right here?” he thought to himself (to himself?…of course it was “to himself,” all thoughts are to one’s self). Can I allow myself to be right here? Can I allow myself to be right here?” The question came over and over again. The man asked this question,“Who is this ‘self’ that I am referring to?” The man wondered who was feeling threatened. Who is this self that is insecure? Who is this self that is afraid that he is not a talented enough writer. Who is this self that is concerned about how Tim feels about him? Who is this self that is still afraid of his father?











Dreamed emma and I were trying to retreive something that she thought was on this jet. Gat e 2B. we were allowed to get on the plane to search. As I was boarding I realized that my backpack had never been searched so I turned around as emma continued into the plane, searching for what she had lost. I turned around because I was afraid that I had a pocket knife in my backpack and that I’d be in big trouble if it was found out that my bag was never searched and I had the knife. So I walk out of the boardin gate and into the hall. They close the door to the jet which is headed to europe. I am panicking trying to get someone’s attention. A woman approaches me and holds me right at the threshold of the boarding gate. She is saying something to me. She is warning me not to cross the threshold but my dauher is on that plane. I expcect that maybe emma got off and she will show up nd surprise me. I cross the threshold trying to get someones attention . I am declaring an emergency but no one will listen. No one will listen and now emma is on her way to europe with no help and no money and no luggage and no me. I was timid. I let her get on the jet by herself. Why wasn’t I with her?



Day 13

6:00 AM



The Traveller—the Son---The middle-aged man--awoke from a dream of the Universal Eileen. He was unable to remember the dream. He scrolled back in his draft to the message that he received yesterday this morning to read again what she had spoken to him last night. Maybe there was something she wanted to add. She did, and you, my dear descendent have already read it (if you’ve been approaching this text chronologically).



The traveller was scheduled to meet with another oracle this morning. The man called, Tim whose family had held him so many years ago. This man Tim, around whom the young man was experiencing so much insecurity, feeling somewhow that he was not trusted, or somehow unworthy of this man’s trust. The feeling had to do with the mushrooms. It had to do with the divorce. It had to do with how Tim didn’t have a good feeling about the man walking away from his job. It had to do with the fact that maybe Tim was still a fundamentalist (but maybe not, the middle-aged-man certainly didn’t want to do any name calling here). It had to do with the fact that Tim wanted to meet him at the International House of Pancakes in contrast to the open invitation into his home that the man had enjoyed for most of his adult life. 



It had do with the fact that the middle-aged-man was feeling threatened. “What did I know about feeling threatened?” the man asked himself. The very first lesson from the ACIM text came to him, as it had so many times before.



“Nothing that is real can be threatened.”

“Nothing that is unreal exists.”



This, the middle-aged-man who now sat cross-legged on the inflatable mattress at his father’s house, is how Christ made that walk with the cross. This is how Christ hung there with the nails through his hands and feet. He became this message. He was this message. “What was that he said?” asked the man, his fingers curled over home-row.



“If you try to save your life, you will lose it

But if you give up your life, you will surely save it”



“It turns out okay either way,” thought the man, “because as we try to save our life we are lead right in to the necessary misery that allows us to eventually surrender our lives. At least that’s what my experience has shown me.”



The son could hear his father piddling around the house (that’s what his grandfather used to call it, “piddling”. It was the way a body moved about without any specific conscious purpose, doing what a body does in its surroundings, tending to its belongings and its environment. That was what the man understood the word “piddling” mean. Praise be to the piddling Grandfather. The one they called Vince).



The man was torn now between his writing and his piddling father in the next room. He took the word “torn” to be the most recent manifestation of the binary. The fork in the road. The fork in the snake’s tongue. The left or the right. So, he waited. 



He acknowledged that which was beyond the binary. He acknowledged that which was beyond shame, and guilt, and obligation, and duty. He acknowledged the non-path. He acknowledged the synthesis. He offered himself some space. He gave himself permission to be exactly where he needed to be. He asked for help from a deeper source. He allowed the communion to happen. He came to that place of rest on the floor. He found the ancient water droplet, the one who shines from deep within. The one who evaporates. The one who sinks into the soil. The one who has no jealousy for the stream. The one who is still. The one who moves at the speed of life.



The son became the water droplet. The son evaporated into the living room where his father was no longer piddling, but sitting in the dark. “Hey,” said the son. There was no response from the father who was not just sitting, he was sleeping. The son walked past the father and took a seat on the neighboring couch, facing South toward the Wild Indigenous one. The sun was rising in the East, The glowing horizon could be seen through the silhouettes of the innumerable naked branches of his father’s backyard. Closest to the horizon was a brilliant orange, which gradated to a brilliant white, which then transmuted into deep midnight blue. The stones in the gas fireplace glowed red as they were excited by the flames, which contined in them all the deeps bues and oranges of the sunrise. His father, silently breathing from his Westerly position was the most still that the son had seen him, in possibly forever. The son felt that he had entered into the old man’s sacred sleep, as if he were observing a moment in the life of this sacred being that had happened a thousand times, and my happen a thousand more. A clock ticked from the kitchen in the North. The old man stirred. He coughed. He reached for a drink. His cell phone was now in his hand and he was entering text. Spud, the chihuaha growled his entrance. The ol man rose from his slumber, to let the yellow animal pee in the front yard. The father left the door open and the cold air touched the son’s feet. The father closed the front door and made his way back to his chair. They had yet to acknowledge one another. The son sat in silent breath, his hands curled over home row.



The sky was soft yellow now on the horizon which slowly faded into a grey blue as seen through the higher branches of the back-lit trees. A single bird lit upon a branch, then he was gone. The heater kicked on. The father flipped through a scrolling screen on his device. His wife stirred in her room on the North-East corner of the house. Tuesday was the day that she spent all day at Synagogue. According to the father, she had a fervent messianic-judaism practice. Peace to the Jew who showed us how to give it away! Peace to the woman in the Norht-East room. Peace to the father who sat silently, scrolling through his cell phone.



The middle-aged-man had found his own stillness in his father’s home, and he had observed his father in a rare moment of stillness. The man could not ever remember seeing his dad asleep when he wasn’t snoring. The man was able to hear his father’s breath that morning. Praise be to Yaweh, the breath of God. Praise be to the One Being. Praise be to the peace that the father and son were holding in that moment. Praise be to the orange and blue fire which excited to stones to glow. Praise be to the little yellow Spud who brought joy to the old man’s heart. 



The man placed his laptop to the side and lowered himself to the large living-room rug where he planned to stretch his hamstrings. As he entered into a relaxed dialogue with his father, he found himself grateful. He stretched hamstrings and quads and found himself in all manners of novice yogic activity as witnessed by his father that morning, all of which felt the most natural in terms of conversation and physical exertion.



He breathed deeply in his father’s presence. He read his father the excerpt that he had written as the sun rose and the father was sleeping. They spoke together in the quietest of tones in which the son ever remembered speaking to his father. Kathy joined them and they laughed in the tile -floored sharply reverberating living room.



The son shared with Kathy of his most recent public baptism. She encouraged him to root himeself in the Word. The son was able to agree with her concerning the importance of being rooted in the Word. He showed her his new bible. The son shared with her how he was writing scriptures of his own, which appeared to mometarily strike fear in Kathy’s eyes, but the son was quickly able to reassure her that he had no need for her to believe as she did, and in so doing, side-stepped a clash of fundamentals. The son congratulated Kathy that she had found her peace in her church home. Kathy congratulated the middle-aged-man on his new found baptism, then she pointed sideways toward her husband and with half-hushed tones indicating the need to get the old-man on board. “We are all on board! We are all on board!” with laughter in his chest. the middle-aged man repeated the statement for emphasis, in agreement with the all-inclusive and broadening expanse of the Universal Christ consciousness. It was in this way that the middle-aged-man made peace with Kathy as she participated in the form that was working for her that day. It was in that way that the middle-aged-man began his day of making peace with old friends and old wineskins



Shantaram

Gregory David Roberts



Day 13

5:05PM



At precisely the speed of life the young man (for he truly felt young that day) steered his car into the IHOP parking lot. He found his silver-haired Timothy waiting at a booth in the Northwest corner of the restaurant. The young man embraced the older man with a smile on his face and true gratitude in his heart.



After exchanging their initial greetings Timothy expressed to the young man how he never wanted him to interpret his lack of enthusiasm in text and phone conversations as a slight toward him. The younger man let him know that it was sometimes a challenge when his texts and voice mails sometimes went unanswered, but it was a challenge which he was willing to face in exchange for a true friendship. The young man also acknowledged the growth that this challenge had brought into his life over the last weeks.



“Would you mind if I placed my phone right here in front of you to record your voice Tim?” said the younger man.



“No, not at all,” Timothy said.



It was in this way that the younger man hoped that he honored the older man’s experience and wisdom while continuing his study of dialogue. Tim was an Evolutionary Christian Mystic who was still bound by some of the trappings of fundamentalism (as we all inevitably are bound by these forms that holds us). The younger man knew that Timothy was right where he needed to be. The younger man had chosen to participate in form. Timothy was one of the chiefs that he had seen in the Kachina dolls on that night of his first medicine journey. The younger man said “yes” to Timothy as Timothy said “yes” to him for more than twenty years. It was understandable that Timothy was right where he was, considering the circles in which he currently walked and where he had come from. It was understandable that the younger man was right where he was. Today, the younger man accepted his silver haired friend. He acknowledged the great wisdom and grace that abides deeply within.



Tim explained to the younger man that because he was involved, on some level, in so many people’s lives that sometimes he engaged in multi-tasking.



Here are some excerpts from the conversation as recorded that day as the two old friends sat in the Northwest corner of the IHOP:



Timothy: …Multi-tasking bothers some people because they think you’re not paying attention to them, or you’re not telling them what they want to hear. Some people think it’s rude if you’re doing something else at the same time that you’re talking to them, but really it’s just true, that’s the way your brain’s working all the time anyway. 



I remember when I was back in school, trying to pay attention to the teacher and I’d look outside and I’d get fascinated with something going on out there. I could still hear her, but I was carrying on a conversation over here too. And I found that you can only do this so much, but the average person does this more than we are willing to admit.



Younger man: I’ve been on a different path of really being right here with one thing at a time.



Timothy: Sometimes that’s the only way to fix something, is to focus and totally isolate everything else. That’s alright. That’s an engineer way of doing it.



Younger man: It’s BOTH/AND



Timothy: I don’t think anyone is supposed to do one or the other, they’re both important.



Younger man: And here’s something I’ve been learning when I come to the fork in the road. It’s like this: ‘Yes’, to the right. ‘Yes’, to the left, and then the non-path presents itself.



Timothy: Here’s something you haven’t seen yet.



Younger man: (Laughing) Right. Exactly. The path that you did not see.



Timothy: Sometimes I think I’m going the wrong way and when it’s really more in-the-plan than I thought. Other times it’s the opposite; you think you’re going the right way and everything crashes and we interpret that as wrong instead of, ‘this is what I’m supposed to be experiencing.’ And that causes a lot of people to get double-minded.



2:04 time indicator



Name changes 4min





The middle-aged-man still felt a kind of sadness that he could not go back to a more open time with Timothy, a time when he felt the closeness with him and his family in which he could call any time and Tim would answer, that time when he enjoyed the liberty of just dropping in on them any time. But Tim did not extend that invitation today, and neither had his wife Jolee in their last facebook messenger exchange. The man sat with that reality for a moment. He sat with it. He let it be exactly what it was. Then, he wondered what would happen if he applied the ACIM lesson of the day to this situation:



“My meaningless thoughts are showing me a meaningless world.”



For the moment, the middle-aged-man preferred to understand his thoughts this way. What if it was true that his thoughts were meaningless? What if these meaningless thoughts were showing him a meaningless world?



The middle-aged-man questioned himself, “How long will I allow myself to be insecure about the change in my relationship to these people who were once such a huge part of my life? How much room does one need to grieve a loss? Who is it that is grieving the loss? Who is the ‘myself’ that is insecure over this loss? Can I bring Presence to this loss? What does this loss feel like in my body? Where is this loss located? What is it like to bring Presence to this loss? What is that experience like? Can I get curious about that? Can I allow that to happen? Is this what these fragmented parts of my being require? Presence? What is this proces like?”



Whose the enemy?

Satan.

What does Christ ask us to do to our enemy?

Love your enemy

Love satan?



Why all this again? What is the point of this blasphemy? More meaningless thought? Possibly.



The middle-aged man recognized the reverence with which he had treated Timothy. Timothy had been the nearest approximation (representation? Embodiement?) of Christ, or the tangible embodiment in this world that most looked like Christ to the young man. 



So, What’s it like to sit with that man, Timothy, and see his faults? Is that how we want to see this? Faults? Is there another way to ask that question? What’s it like to see Timothy as a man who is still maturing and to see places where Tim may be stuck in his progression? Maybe that’s not even the right way to say this. I’m hesitant to nail this down. What’s it like to love Timothy? I think I’m getting closer now. What’s it like to love that man? What’s it like to come back to him in love and acceptance? What’s it like to accept him as you accept yourself? What’s it like to see him in the context of spiral dynamics? What’s it like to feel him as an equal? What’s it like to know your way around your Self in his presence? Here’s one to try on for size…dare I say it?....What’s it like to have gone deeper than your mentor? Let’s try again. Let’s try it this way…What’s it like to know a bigger Christ than Tim knows? What’s it like to experience the Christ as Universal? What’s it like to have left the bible belt? Am I speaking foolishly now? Can I take these risks? Am I willing to risk trying out these statements? Can this be part of my process? What’s it like to love that man? I want to come back to that one.



Timothy still talks of the “saved” and the “lost”. “I asked him what those words meant to him, didn’t I?” the man questioned himself, although he already knew the answer.



Timothy had the check for the meal in his hand.



“I’ll get the tip,” said the younger man as he laid a twenty dollar bill down on the table.



“That’s not a tip,” said Timothy, batting the bill toward his old-disciple.



“Yes, it is,” said the younger man, “That’s my tip today. I’m sowing some seeds. I know you understand that.”



“Yes, I do,” said Timothy



The younger man noticed that, although his bank account was dwindling with no more money scheduled to come in, that he did not feel so scared as he laid the twenty down on the table. And yesterday, as he passed a ten dollar bill to a homeless-looking couple on the street corner, he felt no fear. He who gives up his life, gains it. He who gives up the money, gains his freedom from it.



“Okay, said Tim. I’ve got to get to this dentist appointment.” Several times during their conversation the silver-haired man had applied some anbesol to his gums.



“Yes,” said the younger of the two, “let’s get you there.”



“Oh, wait!” said the younger man, “Could you please sign this for me?” He slid his new blue bible with the vine-textured cover over to Timothy.



Timothy took a few thoughtful moments to write in the front cover of the younger man’s new bible which had his name embossed in silver on the front.



“Okay,” said Timothy, “It was great to see you, my friend.



“Oh, no,” said the younger man, “I’m not leaving you yet. I want to get every moment I can with you. I’m so grateful that you took the time to sit down with me today.”



And so they waited in line. Timothy paid the bill.



As they turned toward the double doors, the younger man placed his arm over Timothy’s shoulder and spoke these words: “I’m here to blow you up Tim, because that’s what you’ve prayed for.” The two men laughed. These were words that were spoken with affection and humor. These two men had a history together. Timothy was with the young man when he was kicked out of his first church. Timothy and his family had held the young man as he as his family left the church of the bible belt to discover what was then a complete mystery, the Cosmic Christ. These two men were accepting the death and resurrection process. These two men were accepting the trembling that came with this process of inviting the Word into one’s very being. They were saying “yes” to life. They were saying yes to one another.



As they emerged from the Internation House of Pancakes into the morning light, they laughed and exchanged good-byes. They parted ways.



“Call me when it’s time to play!” The younger man was strumming his air guitar, walking backwards across the parking lot.



The man in the hooded olive jacket got in his little blue Toyota with the extremely cracked windshield. His next waypoint seemed obvious to him. He was the hunter-gatherer looking for the next berry. He was the following the herd. He turned his little car South-East down the Northwest Expessway. He headed South on Rockwell toward his old place of employment, where he hoped he would meet his old friend and boss, Brian.



Inkling Design



The man is heading South on Rockwell. He is nostalgic. He knows these streets, or at least he once knew them. The people that he left behind here have been travelling these streets the whole time that he has been gone. He left this town like Moses having slain the Egyptian. Into exile in the desert. Not exile. Refuge? Refuge in the desert. The man crosses over that street. What is the name of that street? It’s not wilshire, right? Wilshire runs parallel to Rockwell, does it not. It’s the street that you enter the Bence’s neighborhood from. It’s the last main intersection that you cross through before you get to Brian’s shop when you’re coming from this way.



I’m awake. Sitting here in this room facing North. Trying to make sense. Is that what I’m trying to make sense? Maybe that’s a problem? I wanted to write “the” problem, but I felt that was a little too absolute. 



The man scrolled back down to the real time in which he belonged.





Day 13

December 31, 2019

11:37PM



The dying-author awoke just before the dawn of a new decade, a dawn that had already cracked on much of the world to his East--A midnight which had already come to many of his fellow human beings. The dying author acknowledged the new year in this way, crafting these sentences slowly as the minutes passed before him on the small clock in the lower right-hand- corner of his laptop. He celebrated this new year somberly, by himself, but not alone dear reader. He was mostly unafraid of what life was offering in this moment, and he felt grateful for it all.



His father’s house was quiet. The middle-aged man had napped for over three hours after another conversation with Kathy…



 As he heard the fireworks, an audible expression of the new year, he thought of his children, and it seemed just right to send them a group text:



Father: “Happy New Year! Thinking of you as the dawn of a new decade arises upon us, my dear children! I heard the fireworks and thought, “I bet that’s what my kiddos are doing right now!” Peace to you and all our fellow human beings. Peace to this waking world and all its expressions of arising consciousness.”



The middle aged man admitted to himself the loneliness that he currently felt in his being. He had considered venturing out into the world earlier, but he had not. Instead, he asked Kathy about her synagogue. He had the conversation that his friend Jeremy advised him not to have just before he’d left the college-cow-town those five days ago.



 “So Kathy,” began the middle-aged-man, “you call your assembly place a synagogue? Is that correct? Am I getting that right?”



“Yes,” she said, “I call it a church sometimes so others can understand what I’m talking about.”



“Ahh, I see,” he responded, “And you find your peace there, participating in that form?”



“Yes, I do. Very much so. I have friends there. I enjoy the ceremonies. I feel supported there. I feel loved. I am cared for within those walls.”



“Oh, that sounds lovely, Kathy. I am so happy for you,” he encouraged her to continue.



“Yes, I love my synagogue and the people in it. We recognize the appropriate feasts as indicated in the old testaments. We do Davidic dancing…”



“Davidic dancing?” the man interrupted, “Do you mean that you dance with abandon?”



“Oh no, we don’t believe in that kind of thing, Davidic dancing is a structured group dance with very specific steps,” she explained, “It’s really beautiful. I’d have to show you a video.”



“Yes, I’d like to see that,” he said



She went on, “At our synagogue, we try to avoid the traditions of man by observing the bible as it is written. Things go wrong when man comes in and tries to change things. When we stray from what’s written in the Word, that’s when things go wrong. We do our best to observe the Judaic traditions as they are set out in the Old Testament. The first Christians were Jewish people. If you just stick with the old testament, you can’t go wrong. You know, like Christmas, it’s a Pagan holiday, so we don’t celebrate that.”



“Do you ever find that you are inventing your own traditions despite your efforts to prevent them from coming in? I just ask because that was my experience as I did my best to give myself to the holy scriptures?” He asked.



“Oh yes, that’s always a danger. But we just stick to the Word. You can’t go wrong if you just stay with what’s written there.”



And so this interaction between the middle-aged-man and his father’s wife began. They found common ground in their recognition of the name that cannot be spoken, Y-W-H, the breath of God, the unspeakable name. They also agreed that the annointed one was never called Jesus while he walked the earth, Yeshua being a closer representation of the name of the human-being that was called Messiah over two-thousand years ago. 



The middle-aged-man shared with her about the Universal Christ, the all inclusive One whose arms are wide open, the One who does not exclude anything or any one.



She responded, “I don’t understand this Universal Christ that you are talking about. That doesn’t make much sense to me.”



“That’s okay,” said the man, “I’m not trying to get you to believe anything. It’s okay with me that you don’t understand. My experience has lead me to see the Christ in everything and in every one. There is nowhere I can go to escape the all-encompassing embrace of Christ...”



The middle-aged-man dared to go on. He shared with her how he saw the Christ in his vipassana practice as he observed the breath, and how he saw the Christ in the Buddha. Then, he shared with her how he saw the Christ in his spirit animal, Snake, as he practiced therapeutic shamanism. He shared with her how he saw the Christ in the Hindu Gods and Goddesses.



She continued, “I just know that God said to have no idols before him. Moses went up on the mountain for forty days and the people formed a golden calf, because that’s what we do. We make false idols, and so that’s why I think it’s very important to follow the Word.”



“I think I understand what you are saying. There was a time in my twenties when I tried to live my life as I interpreted the scriptures literally,” He said.



“Well, what do you think of the bible? How do you see the scriptures? What do you believe?” she said.



The middle aged man paused. He began to explain. He stopped. He paused again, realizing how important this one was, for himself, that he be clear of any need to prove anything to Kathy. He was walking a fine line in this conversation. He tried to share only his experience, his strength, his hope. He did not want her to feel threatened or attacked.



“I can’t speak about what I believe, because belief never really helped me as much as I wanted it to,” he continued at last, “I can only speak about my experience. I once read the scriptures literally, and that lead to a type of madness, a death that came naturally as a result of that whole process.” 



The man backed up. He tried again. 



“Let me see if I can say this another way. Really, I just want to be held, Kathy. I never felt that I was held the way I needed to be. And my father was never held like he needed. And his father before him. And this is how I came into the church. I wanted to be held and I was told that I would be held by a literal interpretation of the bible. And I truly was held in that tradition, in that form, for a while. But, eventually, my literal understanding of the holy scriptures was not enough to hold me. When we sold all of our possessions, I gave myself to that form completely, but in the end, I didn’t feel held, so I felt that I had to move on. 

I moved on in my search. I moved on to find the next form, or practice, that would hold me. And this way of being fits me, maybe because I am one of those people that you might call an artist. It’s about the creative process for me. And that’s why it’s so important that I can see the Christ in the Buddha, or Snake, or the Hindu Gods and Goddesses. I never know where I’m going to see the Christ, and I can’t control where this provision of grace through the Cosmic Christ will come from. I know that these ideas may be disturbing to you, and I don’t mean to offend you at all, but I’m even going to take this a step further. You may need to cast me out, and if you do, I understand, but I’m going to speak some blasphemy right now, just to make a point. Here goes: Who is the enemy? Satan. What does Christ tell us to do for our enemies? Love them. So who do we love? We love Satan.”



The man stopped speaking. There was a long pause.



Finally Kathy speaks. “I just know that Jesus did a lot of casting out of demons. There is an enemy and I don’t think that we can love Satan. We have to fight Satan…”



“Okay,” said the man, “But what does the fight of a follower of Christ look like? Isn’t our only weapon love? How do we fight these evil principles and principalities? Do we literally put on God’s armour? And if so, what does that armour look like?”



“You can’t love Satan, that’s all I know.” She said.



“That very well may be so,” he said, “And fortunately I’m not trying to convince you of anything tonight. I’m just sharing my experience with you. I’m just using these words so that maybe we can both see something greater than ourselves. I’m being open and honest with you about my experience. I pray tonight, as I have been praying, that anything false in me will be burned up. Anything not genuine. Anything not authentic. I pray that these things will be burned up in me. And I thank you for your prayers of healing. I welcome them. I have suffered deeply, Kathy, and this is just who I find my Self to be today. I am aware of my need to be held by this all-inclusive, all-encompassing, Creative, Intelligent, and fully-Compassionate Universal Christ. Today I feel that I am in communion with this Christ. This is my experience. I hope that you can feel my respect for your experience today. I don’t need you to be anything different than what you are right now. I don’t need you to be anywhere different than where you are right now. Thank you for allowing me to stay in your home.



“I think I understand, Maybe we can just watch Edward Scissor-hands,” she suggested.



The man sat to watch…



Edward Scissor-hands. The young man who was isolated from his community at the end of the cul-de-sac. The Avon lady came calling. She brought him home. The religious lady was afraid of him. He cut himself. He poked a hole in the water bed. He had trouble dressing and acting right. Everyone seemed curious at best. Suspicious at worst.



But the middle-aged-man grew sleepy. He excused himself to his bedroom to nap, truly hoping that he would get to finish the movie another day. And this is the story of how the middle-aged-man woke up just twenty-three minutes before midnight and began writing as the decade passed before his eyes.



