

now your fucking audience. To dad, heroine, coke, LSD, mushrooms, are all the same in his mind. He’s an old man, dude. Treat him as such. Cold war…Ronald Reagan…just say no!....Commies…Trump good….Make america great again….fags are ruining our country…global warming is a hoax….That’s dad. That’s your audience when you’re talking to him.



Writer: I truly do not believe that I told him YOU were taking mushrooms. Let me rephrase. It is hard for me to believe that I would tell him that YOU ate mushrooms after all we went through last year when I ahd to apologize to you twice for betraying your trust. That seems like somehting that my common sense would filter from coming through my mouth.



Did I tell him? Is there some specific information that he told you that indicated that for sure I’d told him that YOU were eating mushrooms. If I id, I am truly sorry.



If I did, I must confess that I must have been under the spell of the sickness and dysfunctional control tha is manifest in me as I reapproach my father. Ughh…it truly makes me sick to think that I may have betrayed your trust there.



All of this was bothering the writer who was trying to complete this project



The write rose from his seated position and became a musician? A Levite? He gave praise and thanksgiving with his mandolin. He sang in the presence of the Universal Glow. 





Day18

1:51AM



The man lay in bed, the great healing continued. The great turning was being made evident in this individual being. It was 1:51AM on Day 18. He believed. He acknowledged the great One. He acknowledged the unity of being and having. He allowed “being” and “having” to unite with him. Where the Being was the “having”, or rather, in the I Am-ness everything that he ever wanted to have was already had. 



The man acknowledged his own suffering. The man acknowledged his own dynamic nature as he phased in and out of deep consciousness and emotional pain. 



How does that which was once unacceptable come to be accepted? How does that journey come to pass? How does one allow something to come forth within one’s self that the ego refuses to accept? 



The writer lay in bed in the early hours of the morning acknowledging that the human being that he’d felt had seen him the most clearly recently was the man that he’d sat with at IHOP just days before. 



“How is it that which was once unacceptable becomes acceptable?” he asked himself.



The man lay in bed allowing that which was what once unacceptable to finally be accepted in his being. The man that he’d sat with at IHOP had once followed him, perhaps even pursued him.



Through his most recent encounter with his father, the man was making peace with his own anguish. The very anguish which had created a need for Christ within him in the first place so many many years ago as he had face what was absolutely unacceptable in himself. As he faced what his father had also identified within his son, that which was unacceptable.



The man, all those years ago, came to the Christ carrying that within him which was unacceptable. And it was there within the bounds even of fundamentalist christianity that the young man fell in love…



The young man fell in love with another man. The young man found a place within the limitations of his own contracted being, and within the limitations of a clearly deficient fundamentalism, a context in which to fall in love with another man. A context in which he could allow himself to be held by another man. A context in which to become passionately infatuated with the life of another man.



And it was within the context of that love for a man that he called, Jesus in which the young man first discovered self-love. Then a woman appeared. A young woman who the man did not find particularly attractive, but a woman who seemed safe because the young man had a knowing that she would never be able to leave him, and that was especially what the young man wanted. He wanted to be held. He did not want to be left. Like all the other women who had ever been in his life seemed to do.



And it was in this way that the man’s love affair with Jesus transformed into something else. It was in this way that the young man and the young woman who was also desperately trying to make peace with that which was unacceptable within her self began to try to meet one another’s needs. A task that, in the end, would prove to be impossible. For when two people come together who have yet to accept that which is unacceptable in themselves there is little hope that they will find acceptance for one another. And even less hope that they will find acceptance that they so dearly need from the other. 



And so it came to pass that the middle aged man found himself wanting to contact his old friend, the one who had once pursued him, the one who had once followed him as he moved to his South, as he picked up his budding family and moved in a southerly direction. As his wild one persisted.



The christ taught the young man. Jesus had tauht the young man that he must love his neighbor as he loved himself. But the young man had yet to discover a deeper nature of self-love. 



How does one love one’s self when one finds that which is unacceptable in one’s self? How does one come to love one’s self when as a child she is given the message that she is unacceptable? What happens to a gentle feminine nature when it is despised in a young boy? 



The middle-aged-man, as he asked himself this question, thought that he saw the answer very clearly in the trembling image of his father. His father, who was called “homo” and “fag” by his own father and his elder brother of six years. And of course the middle-aged-man saw the results of this violence within himself also.



Years ago as the young mans inner artist (his feminine nature) was blossoming he sat with a friend, both of them playing guitar, alone at the friend’s apartment. Both having taken medicine into their lungs. And the young man had felt a sudden and profound magnetic attraction toward his friend which terrified him and sent him running immediately to the bathroom, splashing water in his face and looking in the mirror, unable to accept himself. 



And it was in this way that the middle aged man now found himself lying in bed, approachin the point of no return, that which his Universal Pema had asked him to go beyond. It was in this way that the middle aged man found himself making peace with that which he’d been unable to make peace with for so very very long. 



“Father?” the middle-aged-man found himself crying now, under the warm covers. Gentle sobs.

“Yes, son?”

“Can we climb that mountain?”

“Yes, son. Let’s climb the mountain together.”



The writer crawled out from underneath the covers and made his way to the shower. He bathed his body in a natural peppermint soap. He sat on the tile floor, the warm water falling over his body as his crossed legs acted as a natural dam. Raising the dam, he watched the water naturally find its way to the drain. He observed this process several times before standing and reaching for the spigot (The writer found it noteworthy that the spigot in this shower at his mothers was the same exact make of the one in his bathroom at the great adobe home in New Mexico).



The water no longer flowing from the shower head, he stood, allowing the drops to naturally drip from his hair and his skin. He reached for the squeegee that hung on the large glass shower partition. He drug the rubber blade horizontally down the full length of the large glass door. He then continued the process with the other half of the thick glass partition.



He exited the shower and took a seat on the closed toilet just outside the thick glass partition. He had not done an exact job with the squeegee, for there still remained water droplets here and there, especially around the door handle where the squeegee could not access fully. As he sat there on the fabric of the toilet seat cover, a single water droplet presented itself to the man. 



He saw a tiny white dot reflected in the water droplet from the bathroom light. The light was so bright it looked like some kind of pure white particulate being held in the form of the droplet. The man noticed that the form of the droplet was distorted by the downward pull of gravity as it was slowly being pulled toward the center of the earth. The droplet did not make its decent all at once though. In fact, at this moment it had stopped completely. 



The man then noticed that every other water droplet also had the same intense white light shining from within its being. The glass shower door was suddenly alive to the man, inhabited by a community of living water. Rivulets of life joined one another in the downward flow as the water so naturally moved toward the center of gravity, mother earth. The man now sat with this scene, his attention on the aliveness of what was happening before him, reminded of the patience that had been manifested in him as he witnessed the death and resurrection of the moth.



He watched as one water droplet made its journey all the way to the base of the shower door and disappeared. Other droplets continued downward, sometimes slightly irregular paths but always, sometimes joining one another, but always in a general downward direction.



The man’s attention was drawn back to the first droplet that had caught his attention. It remained still, seemingly unable to move. “Is it stuck?” the man questioned. “Does it need help?” he wondered. He imagined himself opening the door, for the droplet was on the other side of the door, and sticking out his tongue to absorb the droplet into his own being. He did not want the water droplet to be alone. But he did not do this. He waited patiently for another moment. And another. And another. Until his mind drifted.



His mind drifted to his friend that he’d sat with at IHOP several days ago. He imagined contacting him. He imagined what he would say. “I need to see you?” too needy. “I’d like to see you?” that sounded a little better. “Can I see you again?” that sounded a little bit too romantic for his liking. Then he took another approach. “When I’m with you I feel seen. I’d like to spend some more time with you because I enjoy that experience.” A little wordy. He tried again. “I feel very much like myself when I am with you.” Okay, that was interesting. “When I am with you I feel like I am discovering myself. Can I see you again…soon? Can I see you alone? I’d like to know what it is like to be held by you? Would you please hold me?”



The man’s attention came back to the water droplet that first drew his attention. It was still motionless. But, just then it did move. Just slightly. But it was capable of motion. The man had thought that it would surely just have to evaporate, that it was incapable of continuing its movement toward the center of the earth. There. It moved again.



The man then saw movement in another region of the glass partition. Just inches away there was a great joining of waters and downward flow. It was happening all around. All these minutes after he’d exited the shower and the door was still alive with this movement that he would have usually been so unaware of. But the mushrooms had reminded him of what he could see when he allowed the stillness and the patience to arise from within his being. Because of his relationship with this patience, he was now fully engaged with the life of this water droplet.



It was then that he noticed there was another droplet below the first. The first droplet moved again. It came down several millimeters and then stopped. It moved again. The man now wondered if the two droplets would somehow merge. It seemed possible, although they were directly in line with one another. The first droplet moved again. It began a slow but steady decent. The man wondered what this decent cost the droplet in terms of mass, was it leaving a little bit of itself behind or was it retaining its fullness as it progressed. 



It became evident as the droplet continued that it would merge with the other droplet. It slowly creeped closer and closer, sometimes stopping for a brief moment, sometimes favoring one direction over the other slightly. Closer and closer it came as the man anticipated the moment when the attractive force of the water molecules, which was the cause of the surface tension that caused it to hold form in the first place, would reach out to the other droplet. They came closer still. And finally it happened.



When they joined it was immediate. The mass of the two droplets together was more than the glass door could hold and the droplet rushed without any hesitation downward, disappearing into wherever it was that they disappeared into down there. The man did not bother investigating their final fate. It was out of his hands, very much like when the moth had finally died at the cabin, and the light had changed, and it was finally all over (or so he’d thought). He just left the moth there in the covers to be folded in, eventually turning off the lights and closing his eyes with the expired moth right there in bed with him.



And it was in this way that the writer’s workday started.



Day 18

5:00AM



The writer fell asleep after writing about the water droplets in the shower. He dreamed that he was riding a blue roller coaster. It went forwad. It wnet backward. It went on for quite some time. At the end he somehow just stopped holding on so tightly and he let go and he just kind of floated there. He just floated there in that space. In fact, he was a little worried that he might float away or float out. But he didn’t. The dream and real life integrated and when this happened the man was holding his genitals with his left hand as he floated in the blue roller coaster. He was just floating there as the roller coaster rolled. On his final pass through the roller coaster’s cycle he knew the turns very well and he was just kind of floating and leaning into the turns. The coaster came to a stop. And he exited and walked away when he realized that he’d left his glasses. He walked back to get his glasses which he feared had fallen out of the roller coaster but they had not. They were sitting right there in the seat. Then he made his way down these stairs, this rectangular spiraling stairwell. He went out into what was some kind of train station thinking that the next tie he came to the roller coaster eh would ride it over and over again. He overheard some people talking to one another. What were they saying?



Day 18

5:44AM



The writer rested in his mother’s Northernmost spare bedroom. He was warm under the covers. Yawning. Sometimes speaking into his telephone, recording dreams and visions. He considered the mother of his children. He pulled the chain on the lamp beside his bed. The light came on. For the second time that morning, he crawled out from underneath his covers. He retrieved his chromebook from its position on the floor by the bookshelf where it had been charging for the last forty-five minutes.



He was considering what he would tell the mother of his children when the next payday arrived, the payday that would hold no pay for the unemployed writer. Five days from now the mother of his children would be expecting money. The man was on medical leave. He now had just over twelve-hundred dollars in his account. One-thousand-two-hundred-thrity-six dollars and sixty-eight cents to be exact. The woman that he’d been married to for over twenty years expected seven-hundred and eight-six dollars. 



He considered the possibilities: 



He could send her a message saying, “I’m on medical leave. I do not have any money to give you.”



He could simply give her the whole sum and live with the lack himself, giving fully what he was legally obligated to provide, ensuring that his children’s car payments were made and that his people had everything they needed for one more month.



This second option satisfied him for now. 



The writer was concerned about his teeth. He needed several thousand dollars worth of dental work. The writer was concerned about an ingrown toenail that would eventually need medical attention. What would he do when he could no longer pay for the medical insurance that was still available to him through the employer that so graciously returned to him his two week’s notice and placed him on medical leave? 



These were some of the details of life that he was checking in with. These were the details that he felt the liberty now to trust to Life. These were the details that his earthly father had used in his attempts to shame him into submission. These were the details he always knew would eventually emerge. These were the details that had kept him bound to an unhappy marriage—the details that kept him working at the perfect job with the perfect boss and the perfect coworkers—a job that he unfortunately was just not called to (at least this was the story that made sense to the man today). 



Time an time again he had returned to work after becoming depleted. Twice he had come back from a treatment center and started over. The man was convinced that it was not an attitude problem that caused his problem. It was not an unwillingness to embrace the job. It was not an inability to get along with others. It was not an unwillingness to care for his patients. It was just simply that he became depleted and found himself unable to recover.



The unemployed writer found himself approaching in himself what appeared to be self-justification. And this, he believed, was why he had again placed the laptop in his lap and flipped it open. He needed to face these details in the light of his screen. He needed to see how he was working with himself here. 



These details that Life was presenting him with simply were. These details did not prove to anyone that he was a terrible person. These details did not prove that he was not taking care of his business. These details had arisen as he took one step after another to be true to his Self. And, as was necessary, the man knew that the appropriate wisdom would rise up from within and he would know how to address these details.



The man knew that the support was there. The support would come from within and from without. He was supported in the fabric of his community. He was supported in the fabric of the Kosmos (the K in Ken Wilber’s Kosmos). It was now his job to trust.



He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as his old friend Thich Nhat Hanh had instructed him to do. Just as he now received instruction to do from the wisdom that he knew his Self to be. Theosis. I and the Father are one. 



The man reminded himself that there was no battle to fight over this. There was no need to justify a life as it responded to Love. His course was a natural one, and it was supported by the Wisdom of the ages. The same Wisdom that asked those men in Galille to drop their nets and follow the Christ. The same Wisdom that caused Siddartha Guatama to leave his young family and his palace and move out into the world. These examples were not justifications, they were simply Universal expressions that the man found resounding in his heart.



And so it came to pass that, in this way, the man continued to make peace with himself and the Life that flowed through him. So it came to pass that the man made peace with himself as he trusted Life with these details. So it came to pass that the man allowed his being to be sown back into the soil as he recognized the fragility of his own form. 



The man understood the working out of these details to be the passageways that lead to the deeper discovery of Spirit. The man understood that it was by leaning into Life as it was presented that the process of enlightenment continued. It was in the working-with in contrast to the struggling-against where the man found himself to be held. As he embraced the broad band of physical and emotional experience that his new life required he came deeply into experience, making love to Life, taking God as his Lover, just as Hafiz had directed him in his words written over eight-hundred years ago. Hafiz, that Sufi man who made love to God.

And it was in this way that the unemployed writer found his encouragement as he felt these words of wisdom arising from within his being. It was in this way that he hoped, dear reader, that he was moving toward the final scenes of this work in which he found himself so deeply connected with ya’ll (as they said in his Oklahoma home).



His mother knocked on the door. She laughed and smiled, “Still writing, huh? Did you get some sleep?



“yeah, I got some good sleep said the son,” still reclining in bed with his chromebook resting on the weigted blanket in his lap.”



“Well, I wanted to tell you that I’m going to volunteer at the church the Bethany Children’s Center this morning. I’ll tell you how to get there…” the Universal Glow went through a lengthy description of the route he should take and the landmarks that he would see if the writer chose to make the journey that morning.



“I think I’ll just type the name of the place in my phone,” said the son, “it will tell me how to get there.”



“Oh yeah,” said the Universal Glow, “I forget about that. So, I’ll see you there?”



“you very well may,” said the son.

 

Yesterday morning, the mother and son drove North on I-35 for two hours to see the woman who the man had always known as grandma Rosie. She had once sent her grandson a Christmas card which was gaily bordered with candy canes and ginger-bread men. The card expressed her genuine concern for the grandson’s mental illness after he’d quit his job as a police officer, forsaken his mother, and moved his family to a Children’s home in New Mexico. The man shook with shame and fear that afternoon as his deeply rooted trauma clung to the ego that was protecting it.



Today the man felt no ill will toward his grandmother. He only wanted to bring her his love. He wanted to honor his ancestor, his oldest living ancestor. The woman who once held him and rocked him. The woman who cared for him as his mother was going back to school. The woman who sang, “on the day that you were born the angels got together and decided to create a dream come true…” The woman who now took the tiniest of steps with a can (she should have been using a walker), shuffling across her living room floor to get to her favorite chair.



They sat together in the living room, the son flipping through a picture album from nineteen-ninety two, the year of the man’s highschool graduation. They encountered many good memories together, and they all sang the song together that the grandmother had sung to the little boy, “…so they sprinkled stardust in your hair and golden starlight in your eyes of blue.”



The grandmother, the mother, and the son met the two aunts at the Mexican restaurant across the street from the Vince Erwin Glass Shop. They sat in the restaurant trying to make sense of family trees and they broke tortillas together (Praise be to the hand that rolled them out!).



The mother and the son returned the grandmother to her home and settled her in her favorite chair where she passed her time watching television. They kissed her goodbye. They left the yellow roses on her kitchen table. The mother steered her vehicle South, back toward Oklahoma City. They stopped for a bathroom break. They took a selfie together next to a large bear statue. Praise be to the bear! You are a strong strong strong strong stron strong bear! Oso



It was on this drive home, headed directly South, the sun beginning its afternoon decent early as it does in the winter, that the mother and the son talked about the father.



“He is such a hurtful man.” Said the son. “I have never personally known anyone who is so intentionally hurtful as he is.”



“I know,” said the mother. “I am sorry that you are hurting.”



“Why do I keep going back to him? Why do I keep giving that man my heart? I told him that I was writing a book. I told him that he would be in it. Does he not want to write a better story than this? After all these years of suffering, does he not want to write a better ending than this?”



“His story is not your story,” said the Universal Glow.



“You are right,” said the son. “It’s just so hurtful. He makes me believe that there is evil in the world. It is as if he is gripped by a power that is greater than himself. He attacks with such hate. It can’t be him. That’s not him. That his not who he is. I believe that every human is good at the core, that we are all connected to the diving One-ness at our center. But that is not him. What he becomes when he attacks, that is something else. It is not him.” 



“I know. I know what you are talking about. I lived with it for well over twenty years. He is a recurring nightmare. He is chaos. He is rage. He is unreasonable. He is suffering. I understand what you are going through.”



It was during this conversation with his mother that the son felt the interpretation of the dream that he’d received that morning in which three of his old friends showed up and sang his song with him. It seemed now to the son that these were spirits that were sent to him with a message. And in this message he understood in a deeper way how destructive it was for him to keep returning to his father. In this open state he saw the insanity of returning to an abusive relationship time and time again. 



“I hope I am wrong,” said the mother, “But I do not believe he will ever change. I have watched him for years. It is hard for me to believe that he could ever change.”



The mother shared stories with the son of the abuse and hurtful thoughtlessness that the father of her children had heaped on her, layer by layer over many years until she finally had to leave. 



The son hoped that he would never have to go back. He did not want to go back. He wanted it to be over. He knew that he could not make any vows, but that is how strongly that his feelings were. He prayed that he would never have to go back to that man who willingly gave himself to hate and anger. The man who would not stop blaming his children for his own suffering. 



The son had already hated his father. That time was over. The son had already fought against his father. The son had stood up to his father—that was done. The son had returned to his father this time with the purest peace in his heart that he’d ever known—the greatest possible gift of the son’s joyful heart had been presented to the father. And the father chose to kick the son in the proverbial balls. “Son of a bitch! That hurt,” cried the son, as he recovered once again from the shameful attacks of a bitter old man.



The father would find his own awakening. The son could not give his father his awakening. The father was now on his own. The father who lived in the harshly reverberating house where the television always played. The father who blamed his sons for his own misery. “Please, God, let it be over. Let it be done. I do not want to go back. Please do not make me go back there.” The son wept as they drove South on I-35. 



“Please God, don’t make me go back,” the prayer of a scared child. A prayer prayed in fear. The fear that the son was now experiencing in powerful waves. The fear that he was slowly losing his mind. The irrational fear that somehow his life was in danger. The same fear that he’d experienced when his father ripped the shower door off he hinges. The same fear that he’d experienced when the father chased him around the huge evergreen in the front yard. The same fear that he’d experienced when the father told him how he’d wanted for so long to put a bullet in his head and also into the head of his mother. This fear that if he couldn’t make his father happy that he would die. That somehow his life was in danger when his father was unhappy.



And it was in this state in which the son returned to his mother’s home, where intellectually he knew that he was safe. But where also, now he was still so intimately in touch with his own suffering. Those parts of his being, those ego parts, those fragmented and suffering aspects of his being, those scared little children, they were panicking. They knew that they were not safe and that their life was in danger. The son had encountered these same scared children in his father as his father told him how he was scared that the son would also murder him. His father experienced this too. This was part of what kept them all in bondage, his father, his brther, and himself.



And so it came to pass that the son remembered his greatest Christmas gift, which was the “lethal dose” of medicine that he’d ingested on Christmas Day. On that morning he had felt utterly lost, he did not know if he would be able to come back. He lay there slick with his own purge, water dripping from his soaking hair from the shower. He lay there as the yellow light turned to a sick green and he knew that he was going back to the psychiatric unit. He knew that his mind was gone and may not ever come back. He lay there knowing that he was dying.



It was then that he prayed to the father for direction. It was then that he told his father that he did not want to die just yet. That he was not ready to lose his mind and take his own life. It was then that he got up off the cold tile floor and put on his pants (no underwear. not even a thought of underwear). He put on one of his most warm and comfortable shirts. He made his way to the living room, his mind un-recoverable. He grabbed his waiting guitar, and he began to play. His hands were a little too big and clunky, but it was only a problem for a moment, because he’d been practicing for a lifetime for this moment. And it was then that the greatest non-performance of his lifetime had occurred. The non-performance that would restore the joy of his salvation. The non-performance in which praise and thanksgiving and (dare he say?) worship flowed from his being. He praised the sun in the sky. The trees and the soil. The birds and the grass. He prayed for the people in the passing jet as it left its trail through the blue.



And it was in this same spirit, grabbing on to the form he knew, this time with an instrument that he did not know quite so well (Lina, his mandolin) that he began to sing again:



“mine is a story of redemption

I once was lost but now I’m found

I’m letting go of my pretensions

I’m dancing to a deeper, higher sound

We are the oneness, we are the unity

We are the light



And so another vamp began… “we are the light, we are the light, we are the light”



And the son rode the wave of energy that the Spirit had been teaching him how to create all these years. 



And then his song changed to a minor key. And another vamp began in which he recalled the journey of the last year of his life, from the time that he arrived at the psychiatric unit until he had a renewed serenity experience in conjunction with his 12 step work.



And he faced North, looking into his reflection that was made in the large window in his mother’s living room adjacent to the kitchen. And his mother was witness to this song. And the mother was witness to the thanksgiving and praise and the testimony that flowed from her eldest son. And when he was finally done she said, “Amen. Are you sweating?”



And with that the son laughed with that because he now had the gift of not taking himself too seriously.



And so it came to pass that the son shared with his mother the story of his baptism in the cold mountain stream and his climb to the top of the mountain just outside the Lincoln National Forest.











“Father?

“Yes, Son?”

“Can we climb that mountain?”

“Yes, Son. Let’s climb it together. One step at a time.”





Day 18

8:35PM



The man allowed himself to be drawn out of a dream as he was awaking from a nearly three hour nap.



A strange thing had happened. He had just received a text from the only man that he’d ever confessed his attraction towards. It was a man that he’d met at the first treatment center that he’d attended. The writer was unable to dismiss the text as merely coincidence. He had not heard from the man in over a year.



The writer had fallend asleep hours before praying for direction. “Have I gone past the point of no return?” He asked the Universe. “Is it time to go back home tomorrow?” he prayed out loud.



He felt as if he’d done some kind of violence toward himself earlier that day as he had forced himself to stay at the church service that he’d attended, the church service that his mother served at there in the Bethany Children’s Center. 



He went because he was curious about his mother’s life. He went because his mother invited him. He went knowing that it may not be his cup of tea. He went with the intent of honoring his mother, whatever that meant.



He’d sat in a darkened conference room watching a live-streamed broadcast of a church service that was taking place across town. He watched Sandi Patti, a veteran of popular the popular Christian music world, deliver an impressive musical stage performance. He watched as an intelligent, funny, and attractive middle-aged-man preach about patience. He allowed himself to eventually sing with the other’s who’d gathered in the dark room to watch the images projected on the white screen. He allowed himself to laugh and the preacher’s jokes. 



After the service he found his car in the parking garage. As he was situating himself in the driver’s seat he got a text from Dan. He and Christy had gone to Las Vegas. They got married. This was marriage number eight for his good friend, Danno. The middle aged man hoped that his friend found what he was looking for this time. The middle-aged-man certainly had found the crazy-wisdom and love that he needed in Dan.



However, the middle-aged man also found his already uncertain future to feel threatened. He was now living with a married couple, which was a very different thing than having a single man as a roomate. The man put these emotions on the back burner and continued with his day. He and his mother had been invited to lunch.



The middle-aged-man offered to help clean up after the church service. The middle-aged-man politely and even vigorously accepted an invitation to a meal that his mother’s dear friend prepared for the mother and the son. The son retrieved his guitar from his vehicle and played pre-mean instrumental music for the lunch party.



Despite all of these efforts, the middle-aged-man felt false and contrived. He did want to offend his mother or his gracious hosts, but he was bored as her sat there in their polite company, being as polite as he possibly could. He also felt that any attempt that he made to express his genuine self would only end in confusion, a confusion that he did not want to bring on himself, or his mother, or his mother’s friend and her husband. 



He ate two pieces of breaded tilapia. He ate the lavender peas. He ate the seasoned wild rice. He ate thickly buttered Hawaiian rolls. He devoured two helpings of cobbler and ice cream. After lunch was over and there was an appropriatley long pause in the polite conversation, he announced that he was scheduled to teach a guitar lesson across town. He excused himself from the table, gathered his coat, latched his guitar in its case, hugged his mother and his gracious host, shook the dentist’s hand, and found his way to his little blue Toyota.



The food weighed heavy in his stomach and he could feel a heavy sleepiness weighing on him. He was unsure how he would give of himself as he made his way North across OKC on Rockwell Ave. But the middle-aged-man made his way none the less. 



The city finally gave way to fields and trees. He turned West on 192nd and shortly arrived at his old friend’s beautiful home. The home that his entrepreneurial friend, Brian had built himself. The middle-aged-man had played a limited role in its construction. He’d worked for his friend back in the late 90’s at his screen printing shop.



The middle-aged-man struggled with feelings of inadequacy (or was that jealousy?) as he entered the luxurious home on the Western edge of Edmond. He was aware that his beard may appear to be scruffy of unkempt. He was conscious of his little blue car and all its inadequacies. 



The man remembered the ACIM lesson the day: “This thought about _____ is not a neutral thought. The man had been aware, even as he had been travelling north on Rockwell for the last twenty five minutes that his thoughts were far from neutral. His thoughts were contributing to the “illusion” as ACIM said. Even as he was aware of this he prayed that God would use him in service. And it was in this condition that the middle-aged-man arrived at his old friend’s house because he volunteered to give his friends gifted son, Nash, a guitar lesson.



He was greeted by Shelly and another son, Hudson, who was also interested in guitar. The middle-aged-man did the best with the energy that he had. He struggled to find a way for the three of them to make music together. He used his musical skills to engage the boys in the music. They laughed. They played. The middle-aged-mans efforts were not without fruit. He was able to impart som musical wisdom. He used his skills to serve the family. The middle-aged-man felt pleased in the effort that he had been able to put forth.



Shelly inquired about the wellness of his children. The middle-aged man was happy tht he could report that they were indeed well. The middle-aged man shared in a limited way about his own life. The boys inquired about his recent backpack journey, which caused the middle-aged-man to feel insecure in that he was possibly bringing some unwelcomed influence to these growing boys.



Lots of ego. That’s what the middle-aged-man was trapped in today. He wasn’t quite where he wanted to be. Or was he not quite where he needed to be? And if so, where was it that he was truly needed? Was he somehow on this day being less than true to his Self? Had he not chosen to be exactly where he was?



Nash introduced his bearded guest to the family’s Christmas present, a knobby tired go cart with an impressive sound system. “Get in,” said Nash. The middle-aged-man complied. Do you like “Smile?” Nash asked.



“I don’t know what you mean.” Said the man.



“It’s a song. It’s called “Smile. It’s one of my favorite jams.” And with this Nash turned up the volume and began wildly circling the terrain of the property, the man holding on for his dear life and smiling indeed. This young boy seemed to be intentional in the lifting up of the middle-aged-man. They circled the large property several times, Nash leaning forward in the seat, mashing the accelerator to the floor, the middle-aged man pushing himself down into the seat with his arms, smiling some more.



There was a gentleness and a wisdom in this family that the middle-aged-man felt somehow estranged from. There was a distance that their obvious financial success caused in him. He did not want to feel the alienation that he was experiencing, and he did not blame any of them for causing it. It simply was.



He’d felt the same as he’d sat earlier at the large table, eating with his mother and her friends. He felt somehow out of place, like if he spoke up and really became himself that it would just be too much. 



After the middle-aged-man said his goodbyes to Shelly and Hudson, who had begun disassembling the Christmas tree (Christmas decorations! a task which the man had recognized in himself as some kind of emotional trigger for years) Nash very deliberated showed him out to his car.



Nash lingered with gentle affection for the man. He hugged him, and hugged him again. He showed the man how to do the a handshake that, in his current state, he found to be very challenging.



“Promise me that I’ll see you within the next year,” said the boy.



“I don’t make promises,” said the man.



“Well, promise me that you’ll come back in the next two years,” the boy compromised.



“Nash. Next time I’m in town I will get a hold of your Dad, okay.” 



The boy expressed some kind of affection for the middle-aged-man that he was unable to generate for himself that day. The man had no idea how a human could have knocked on the door of his heart more effectively. This boy was present in a way that the middle-aged-man could hardly understand. He tried to receive the gift. It was his intention to receive this gift from the Universe.



As the young man finally allowed him to close the door and drive away, the middle aged man prayed. “God, I offer myself to you. God help me. God help us all.” He was exhausted. He’d been up writing for most of the night. He made his way East on 178th street as the fields turned into the city streets of Edmond.



His exhaustion turned into desperation as he found himself seemingly unable to navigate his way back to his mother’s home. He found himself, against his will, consciously passing the intersection of 143rd and Coltrane. An intersection that he recognized immediately as the entrance to an old world. He made a U-turn and turned West toward one of the neighborhoods of his youth.



The man could only feel pain and loss and regret as he drove his car through this neighborhood. He paused in front of his old family’s house on 143rd. The small tree that he, as a boy, once climbed was now thick and towering. “That was thirty five years ago,” the man marvelled to himself. He could not understand how it was the same tree. The man could only feel loss and suffering. He could only cry as he turned back to the North on Foxbriar Drive. 



He travelled down the hill that he once coasted down on his red ten speed. He passed Steven Koch’s house, the kid with the coolest Diamond Back bike in town. Tears formed in his eyes and his breathing stopped as his body tried to allow the anguish of his youth to surface. He passed the house where he had hurled racial slurs at one of the only black children at his school. The middle-aged-man felt sick and lost. How could this even be the same place. How could he know it so well and yet also so alien?



He wanted to stop and beg the parents in the park to hold him. He wanted a chance to go back and do it again, this time with somone who could hold him. No. None of those words were doing it. There was nothing. There was no sentiment that could say what he felt. These were all just constructions with which the writer attempted to express the sickness and sadness that seemed to color the youth of the middle-aged-man.



The man felt fragile, and he knew why. This morning he lay in bed trying to accept that which was unacceptable. After his shower, he’d had an intimate experience with the water droplets and he had allowed himself to think thoughts that had never been acceptable. There was a tenderness in his being that morning. And then he’d asked himself to go out in to a world which he still perceived to be unaccepting. A world which he could only perceive himself as being separate from. He was seeing the world still through the eyes that he had inherited from his father. 



This was how his father felt. This was why he lashed out in fear. This was the world that the young boy had inherited. This was the vision of the world that had been passed down to the boy in his genetics. And this was how the middle-aged-man saw the world today.



The middle-aged-man passed by the elementary school that he’d attended from third to fifth grade. The low hanging sun prevented him from getting a good look. He continued this long detour, struggling to find his way back to his mother’s home. 



Was that hunger he felt? Probably not. But he passed a sushi restaurant and that’s what he wanted. Nash had handed him several twenty dollar bills before he’d left. He parked his car and went into the sushi and saki bar. He sat at a table. A man approached and offered to serve him. The man felt guilt. He did not have the money to be here. There was child support. Ther were his children. He ordered something off the menu to-go. He sat with his head in his hands at the table. There were only two other people in the restaurant. Why could he not allow himself a meal here? 



He took the yellowfin tuna out to his car, unsure of what to do with it. He ate a piece in the parking lot. He was worried that if he took it home that his mother would think he was spending his money unwisely. He brought the fish into his room, drenched them in soy sauce, and sat in a hidden corner eating the raw fish and carrots and pickled ginger and green onions. It was a hidden and guilty meal. He now felt hidden and guilty.



And this was when he noticed the text from Ted. 



Ted, the man who he’d found attractive as he attended the same treatment center at which he’d met the woman from Bermuda. The same treatment center at which he’d admitted to a room full of people for the first time in his life that he was a bisexual. The term seemed clunky to the writer as it sat on the screen. Bisexual? What the fuck does that mean?



“How the fuck can you finalize a life experience like this with a word like that? Thought the middle-aged-man. ‘bisexual?’ ‘Gay?’ How could a lifetime of pain and confusion be solved by these terms that seemed to be charged with the same insanity that had plagued the man for so many years. Was this anguish going to be solved by sleeping with a man? What the fuck? The middle-aged-man did not think so.”



The church service. His mother. Her friends. The well-to-do family with the caring son. How is it that all of these people and situations could carry so much pain for him. How is it that he found himself here today? 



While visiting his old neighborhood, he drove by another old friend’s house. There was the driveway where he had first asked Christ to come into his heart, where he had asked for a new life in the Spirit. There was the driveway in which he hoped he’d solved this problem once and for all. There was the driveway where he came to understand that everyone is born into sin, but we can receive a second birth in the spirit. There was the driveway where he first understood that he could be born again.



And so it came to pass that the young man of twenty one (or was it twenty two years?) came to ask the Lord Jesus into his heart. And it was on that night that the man’s friend, the Christian saxophone player, opened up the bible to the book of Romans, chapter 8, from which somehow the young man understood that if some kind of pledge of allegiance was made to the one and only true God, that he would no longer have to face that which was unacceptable in his own being, that part of him that was magnetically drawn to his fellow guitar player that night that he’d run away to the bathroom to splash cold water in his face. 



And it was on that night that he drove away from his friends house with the knowing that nothing would ever be the same again. And then the young man met the woman who had also repented from that which she had found unacceptable in herself. And it was upon this faith that Jesus had delivered them from their sins, that they were new creations now in Christ, that they got married and had three children and went forward into life with all the strength and devotion that they could muster.



The writer sat facing Eastward, reclined in his mother’s northern-most spare bed, the weighted blanket and the chromebook in his lap. He could hear his mother and her husband in the kitchen. It was 10:33. They would be going to bed soon. He did not know if he would be staying another day here. He placed the chromebook to the side and swiveled out of bed.



It appeared that the mother sat waiting for the son to enter. They spoke to one another for quite some time. The son shared his heart. The mother was accepting. It was that simple. The son felt sheltered in the mother’s acceptance. The son felt safe in the mother’s home. He was free to stay if he needed to stay. He was free to go if he needed to go. The mother accepted the son. The son felt the mother’s acceptance. There was room for healing in the acceptance that the son felt from his mother. They hugged. She gathered her things. She went to bed. It was fifteen minutes after Eleven.



The son made himself a cup of tea in the typewriter mug that the mother had bought in recognition of the son’s writing efforts, an herbal lemon. The son showered, not because he was especially dirty, but because it felt good. He lathered with the peppermint soap. He shampooed his thick hair and his greying beard. He rinsed. He squeegeed the heavy glass door.



He positioned the prayer mat facing the East. He gave thanks to the One living Being. He sensed the being in himself. He and the Being were one. It was that simple.



He thanked God for the richness of his experience. He thanked the Father for all that he’d witnessed as he had occupied this particucular form. He rose to a seated position on the mat, scooting the mat under his naked bottom to avoid the cold of the tile floor. These quiet moments of clarity were precious. He acknowledged the sanctity of life. He acknowledged the wisdom in his being. He acknowledged the great I AM.



He brushed his teeth. He retired to his bedroom for another rest. 



