Day 8

1:34AM



The dying author awoke at 1:34AM, the day after Christmas. The day after he ground up what he estimated to be 10 grams of dry mushrooms and drank it all at once. He questioned the wisdom of that. He wondered if he had done some kind of violence to himself. The journey of yesterday morning had been the single most scary experience of his life.



He realized that he was going to need help to continue this healing journey. He did not know from where or how that help would come.



The middle-aged-man had a trip planned. It was Thursday. Tomorrow he would go with his three children and his son-in-law to Oklahoma City. He was running out of money. This morning he felt as if he was running out of patience with himself. He felt foolish for putting himself through what he had yesterday with the medicine. 



At the time, he felt that he was being shown to eat all the mushrooms, but now he was not sure. He had made himself sick, and been unable to allow himself to sink in. He had to save his own life. He was unable to surrender. He felt that he had done violence to himself in taking in the medicine the way he did. He needed help.



He walked away from his job

He had no income

His bank account was dwindling

His ex wife would be expecting a child-support check

He did not have the money



He prayed the simplest prayer

The one that he had seen work

“God, please help me.”



Eli came and cuddled in close to the mans chest, purring in undulating waves.

The man massaged his head and felt the purring in his chest.



“God, please help me.”

Please send me the help that I need

How can I make peace with a universe that is out to help me?

Can I accept that right now?

That the universe is out to help me?



The middle aged man was tired. He was tired of working for food that only left him hungry. He was tired of trading his life for dollars. He wanted something else. No. He needed something else. His being was crying out for something else. He felt that he was at the end of a long journey. He felt that he was at the beginning of a longer one. “How can I help?” asked the man. “how can I help in this great turning?” “I have made myself available. Have I made myself available? How can I help?”





The man recalled one brief moment of his trip yesterday, lying in bed. He was a baby, struggling for attention. Struggling to find the nipple. His thumb became what he sought. He cried out for attention. He cried out, in this infant state, for the help that he needed to survive. A child is born.



The writer longed to live at the speed of life. To allow his life to unfold, not by the schedule of a physical therapy clinic, where he was bound to heal when his schedule called for healing. He had learned over the last eight years, working in the medical system just how impossible that was for him. 



The only way that he knew to be with these hurting people was to give them his whole heart. To give them the full attention that they deserved. To be fully present. But the man found that when he did this, when he participated in the healing process in this full measure, he became hopelessly depleted, exhausted, no longer able to function, unable to give these hurting people what they needed. 



A weekend was not enough recovery time. A week was not enough recovery time either . His job expected him to be available for forty hours a week , 50 weeks a year. The man had given his everything to make it work for himself, but he could not.



He came back time and time again after being depleted and breaking down. He had gone as far as he could go, and one day, as he sat in prayer and meditation in the bathroom, as he sat in the exact place that this writing project began, something crystallized in his being. He was ready for something else. He was ready to give himself the chance that he needed. He was finally ready to walk away from all his dysfunction. 



Something came together right before him. It was not a particularly emotional moment. It was a simple moment in which he knew what needed to be done. So he went to work and typed his two weeks notice. He wanted to honor his patients and his boss and his coworkers by completing the two weeks notice, but he could not. He was unable. He had literally come as far as he could go. He was not quitting because he wanted to. He was quitting because he had to. He was quitting because he was no longer able to fit his square self into this round hole. He was finished. It was not a sign of illness, it was a sign of health.



And this is how the writer found himself that morning after having eaten the mushrooms on the day after Christmas. The writer lay in bed, his laptop propped up on the tiger blanket that his youngest daughter brought to him from home after he had walked away. 



For twenty months now, the man had been stepping away. He stepped away from a twenty year marriage. He stepped away from a passionate love affair. He stepped away from a friends-with-benefits relationship. He stepped away from his job. He stepped away from the community of a 12 step program so that he could try to give himself the healing that he needed through psychedelics. And now, he was trying to step away from the ego that was stifling him. He was trying to step away from the programmed ego. The self that had been programmed by a dysfunctional society. The false-self that had grown up around him for protections. The self that protected itself at all cost. The self that does not trust that there is enough. The self that is critical. The self that is wounded. The self who is scared. The self who is ashamed. The self who is resentful. The self that cannot let go.



The middle-aged-man wanted to move at the speed of life. He wanted to be alert when he was awake. He wanted to sleep when he was tired. He wanted to allow inspiration to come and go. He wanted to heal when the Father was healing and rest when the Father was resting. He wanted to allow himself to live. He wanted to allow this true Self to arise from within.



“Mother?” said the middle aged man. Can you shine your light on all these “wants?”



“Yes, my son,” My light is shining.” She smiled.



The author scanned through some of his work from the last days, but he was unable to feel anything but demoralized. He remembered Eileen’s words from the email she’d sent, about how his self-compassion would be important during these down moments. The middle-aged-man allowed himself this weariness. 



He allowed himself this moment. He flipped his laptop closed. He lay there in his bed. He Curled the tiger blanket around his body. He stuck his thumb in his mouth, trying to recall the baby that he’d become the day before after he’d consumed all that medicine.



“Please, hold me,” he said, in a pitiful voice. “Please, hold me. I just want to be held.”



Over and over again, “Please hold me. Please hold me. Please hold me.”



He lay there wishing that he would have been able to sink into the death that was offered him, that death that was offered by the mushrooms (Praise be to the wise ones!), the death that he’d been offered when the light turned from yellow to dull green. He wished that he could have seen what lie beyond that threshold, but instead he had prayed to live. Instead he had gotten up, put on the fig leaf, grabbed his tools and saved himself. 



He allowed himself to sink into that death now. In his mind, he went back to that moment there on the bathroom floor when his hair was dripping wet. He released all his ambition. He had no job. He had no future. He had no desire. No desire to continue this writing project. No desire to ever return to work. He had no desire to travel to Oklahoma City with his children to see his mother. He wanted to just sink back into the earth.



Eli, curled up beside the dying man. He was quite still for a few moments. Then, Eli made a very subtle movement, a movement which registered in the man’s senses with profundity. The middle-aged-man found himself there, present with Eli. He found himself present again with the simplicity of Eli’s next subtle movement. 



He sensed in this moment, present here with another living being, a great joy, a simple presence. He observed himself sensing Eli. He was delivered from his own pity for a moment. He was no longer the narrator. He was in a simple state of being. Then, just as quickly, he was back again. The voice of the narrator returned. The voice of the writer. “Ahhhh, thought the writer, this is what I’ve been waiting for, I’ve been writing about you, my friend.” He acknowledged the simple presence of being. The writer was acknowledging the Great I AM. The writer then acknowledged that one with which he was so familiar, that one who tells stories, his beloved muse. He made peace with that voice, and then he was allowed to sink back into the death, or the life beyond the death. Then, again, the writer disappeared. The man, having some simpler I AM state of being. The man experienced the God who was his own experience. He experienced the theosis. The one-ness. 



The middle-aged-man had felt that writer’s voice developing in him over the last eight days. Over the last eight days of intensive writing, the voice of the narrator had become strengthened and fortified, reinforced. The voice was so strong now that it had begun to speak within the man’s being, even when he was not in front of his laptop facing North. The voice had become so distinct from his being that the man recognized it for what it was, the storyteller. Who is the storyteller? The one who speaks in parables? Who is that one? The one who tells no story of himself? The one who writes no book? The one who lives with absolute presence? The one who does not speak of himself, but who speaks of The One-ness? Does this one live in me?



The middle-aged-man, still lying in bed, turns once again to his inner being. He lay there with Eli. He phased in and out of being-states. When the storyteller told a story, he acknowledged. Sometimes the story teller became silent, or he allowed the storyteller to take a much deserved rest. Yes, the man allowed his storyteller to rest. 



The storyteller, the one who tells the story of hopelessness. The one who tells the story of the bank account. The one who tells the story of the individual. The one who grew up hurting, just dying to be heard. The one who is desperate for attention. The baby that never got the love that he wanted or needed. The one who was angry and crushed. The one who came forth into the world. The one who was chased around the tree by his father on the day that he left home. The one who was still suffering. The one who failed in the workplace. The one who failed in his marriage. The father who failed to give his own children everything they needed. The one who was responsible for the repossession of his two youngest children’s cars. The one who would one day be homeless, like Jedi 9. The one who could not allow himeself to sink into the dull green light. The one who had to defend himself.



Praise be to Pema, who introduced the man to the practice of vipassana. Praise be to Penny for introducing him to Pema. Penny, the one who had introduced him to “unconditional positive regard. Praise be to Carl Rogers, the father of unconditional-positive-regard in psychotherapy. Praise be to the Source, from which all unconditional positive regard flows. Praise be to the great I AM. Praise to the great Being from which we all flow and will return. Praise be to the promise of the dull green light. Praise be to the one who speaks of the kingdom of heaven in parables. Praise be to the One who says “yes” to the dying process over and over again even as he is sowing his own life back into the soil. Praise be to the author who, for even a brief moment descends to a deeper state of being and communes with the great I AM. Praise be that there is more than what we can see. Praise be to the great Mystery, that which cannot be spoken of. Praise be to Bruce, and all those who keep speaking of that which is beyond all language. Praise be to the fingers curled over home row. Praise be to the great What-Is. Praise be to Bill W and Dr Bob for crystallizing the twelve steps for all of those who would hear, for those of us whose lives had become unmanageable. Praise to the father who suffers, yet does what he can to shelter and love his children. Praise be to the failure, which is really no failure at all, just a natural expression of the evolution of deeper consciousness. Gratefulness flows from within no. May gratefulness overflow from deep within our beings. May we be overwhelmed by life. May we be overwhelmed and consumed by the great Snake which spirals into the infinite universe of material and consciousness. May we see the Christ in all and the All in Christ. May we praise the Christ in all that we see. May we live lives of merry abandon to the Oneness. May we embrace our individuality with unconditional positive regard. May we notice the subtle movements of the great cat, the Lion of Judah. May we acknowledge and accept every gift that life has to offer. May we follow that life to the end, when the dull green light invites us back into the great Presence.



The man’s prayer changed, as he lay there on his side, Eli next to him. “God,” he said, “help me to see how you are holding me. I know that I am being held. Please help me to experience your embrace. I know that you are holding me. I am finished God. I am at the end. I cannot go on if I do not know your embrace.” The man remained in that space for some time. Then something came to him.



As he opened his laptop, a song came to the middle-aged-man. He lay in bed, typing in a reclined position. his Chromebook was propped up on the tiger blanket which his daughter had so lovingly delivered to him just after he had left home twenty months ago. The song went like this



Oh Lord, I long to know your embrace

Oh my soul longs sorely after you, Oh my God

Oh Lord I love you so

I have nowhere else to go

Before the cock crows

I know

I will say, 

“no, I do not know you.”



In the past months the man had come to relate to the story of Peter in a very personal way. Peter, the Rock, this man who was a witness to the life of Christ. The man who knew this Lord, his lover (rule #62). This man whom he had fallen deeply in love with. Peter, the one who dropped his nets to follow this man who he was deeply attracted to, because…That’s how the story goes, right?



There was a human that walked the earth who was so attractive to other men that they left their homes and their wives to be with him. And all these men sat together at night and shared deep passion with one another. They were having a very personal experience together. It was a taboo experience. An intimate experience. All these men had left everything to follow this man that they called, Lord. KosmicEditors' note: we're not really saying that he was gay. We're just trying to offend the unhelpful religion out of you! ((Selah))}



These men were falling in love, and the love that they were making with each other, the power of this One and these twelve coming together, was the seed which was impregnating the world with the Christ. This taboo love affair that these men were having with one another was going to make us pregnant with the spirit of Christ so that his consciousness could be born again. That’s how hard these men were fucking the earth and its inhabitants. It was very passionate!



And after this One and these twelve men had made love to the world like this, and it was time for the Christ to do the impossible, when all the shit was coming down, when those who were in charge finally said, “That is ENOUGH! We won’t stand for this anymore. We won’t stand for these men roaming about making love to the world anymore. This is a huge fucking problem and it is threatening everything that we know! We must put a stop tot this!”



And so it was determined that the guards would go and get this ONE. This one from which all this love making had originated. And they came, and there was Peter who tried to protect him, because he loved him so. And an ear was cut off with a sword. And the Christ, in that moment said, “No, this is not how it goes.” And he replaced the ear that had been cut off (Van gogh’s ear?). The ONE miraculously replaced the ear, then went with the guards.



This ONE who had been taken away by the guards, He was the only one who understood what it was that was about to happen. Earlier, he’d had a conversation with Peter. Peter said to the ONE, he say, “I love you so much, my friend, my lover, my Lord. I will never forsake you. I will never turn away from you. I see you, my Lord. You are the most beautiful being that I have ever known. I would not walk away from you. Please, hold me, tell me everything is going to be okay.” 



“Peter,” said the Christ, “I know that you love me, and I love you. It has been a deep honor to spend this time with you. It is true that we have been together for quite some time. We have seen so much. We have seen miracles happen by the love in our hearts. I would love to stay with you. I would love to live more life with you, but I must go do something else. I have to show you something. I have to work this one last miracle. I have to go and do the un-do-able. I have to do something that will offend you. It will sicken you so deeply. What is going to happen is going to scare you so deeply. You will be so afraid for your own life that you will tell everyone that you do not even know me, Peter. What is going to happen is going to invoke such a great fear in you that you will run. You’re going to run Peter. You’re going to rise up and do whatever it takes to save your own life, because that’s just how much gravity that this situation holds (gravity? was there gravity back then?). 



Anyway Peter, this is how it’s going to go. I know you love me. But you are approaching your own death tonight. You’ve been brought to the threshold. I will pass through my doorway and you will pass through yours. This threshold that I am about to cross, I am the only one of us who can make that trip. I’ve been training all my life for this, Peter. I have the necessary tools. I have this deep abiding relationship with my Father. I don’t quite understand it all Peter, but this is just who I am. This is how I have always been. It has been an honor to travel with you Petra. It has been an honor to hold you, to touch you, to smell you, to laugh with you. It has been an honor to make this love with you. 



Don’t be disheartened, Petra, when you betray me, for this is just the way of things. This is just how it goes. Petra, you’re not just going to betray me once. Not twice. But three times. Before the rooster crows, Petra, my rock. You will say that you don’t know me three times, my friend. And then you will die a death my Petra. Your heart will break as you watch me suffer, and there will be absolutely nothing that you can do about it. Now hug me, one last time. Let me hold you one last time before this all happens, my Petra. Oh God, I love you.”



And how was Peter feeling after that embrace? What was in his heart? How was he holding all of this? How was he held? I don’t think that we have to even open our bible to know. He was struggling. The One that he loved had just spoken over him a prophesy of failure? Is that what had happened? Maybe. Or maybe the One had just given him the message of “unconditional positive regard”. 



Because here’s the thing: Those two men held each other in that embrace for quite a long moment that afternoon. They cried in each others arms. And as the Christ said these next words to him, Peter felt a love flow into his being that he would remember again only after he had betrayed his Lord three times. Because of the great fear that came over this strong man, He forgot all about this exchange. The next time that Peter would even remember this impartation of love was just after the cock crowed that next morning, because fear completely overtook the man. And this is what the Christ said to Peter during that hug that was way too long for a couple of straight guys:



“There is nothing that you can do, My Petra, that will make me stop loving you. I know that you are human. I know that you are scared. I understand your limitations. But you will find your way back to the love that we made here. Your whole life is changed forever because of the love that we have made here, and now your DNA has been changed. You very being is forever altered by this miracle that has been done through us. You will spend the rest of your life trying to understand what you have seen here. You will spend the rest of your life in remembrance of these miracles, bearing witness to the light that has passed through you during this time. And you will live and you will die, but this message is going to keep speaking for generations and generations to come. Two thousand years from now, they’re still going to be grappling with this. They’re going to do a bunch of crazy shit with our story, Petra. Our love will be betrayed time and time again, by men who think they know, by those who are full of fear. But the point is, Petra, that I am always holding you. The Anointed one is always with you now, and it has nothing to do with you how good you are. You know that the love I have given you is unconditional. The love of the Father always finds his Sons. Allow yourself, Petra, to be held by this absolute acceptance. Be held in this perfect love that we have made together. Share this love that we have made. Make this happen again. Allow yourself to be held by this absolute grace, My Petra. I’ll be back soon. There’s more I can share with you then, my friend. Peace to you. Now, Go on, orphan, read some books!” (nacho Libre? Yes or no?)”



This is my story

This is my song

Loving my savior

All the day long



La la la la la

La la la la



Day 8

Dec 26 2019

7:38 AM



The man recalled a moment when he was younger. It was a moment that occurred some time after he’d sold all he had. He'd sold all that he had so that he could buy that field. the same field where he’d reburied the treasure that he’d found. 



After he and his wife had sold all they had--after they had bought that field, the voice of the Lord seemed to go silent. Everything that the young man had learned, all of his spiritual practice was beginning to break down. 



The young man was still learning to live in this world with a young family. He was reconciling himself to the needs of his family, to the needs of his wife. He was in the process of giving himself away. He was the seed that was being sown into the soil. He was the dying seed from which the tree would grow. He was being folded in to the blueberry batter. He was discovering what all this was like.



This young man—this still traumatized young man--was working at Braums, a popular chain of fast-food restaurants in Oklahoma. The young man was a soda jerk. He made and served ice-cream and hamburgers. He cringed, the first time he'd placed his hand under the heat lamp to retrieve some salty fries from the heat-lamp-warmer. 



The writer recalled the heat of the red lamp on his skin. He recalled the first time that he was forced to ask the question, “Do you want fries with that?” He recalled the washing of the dishes and the mopping of the floors. He recalled how he crawled inside the trash can container (the one with the swinging door that says “thank you” as you leave the restaurant). 



He crawled inside the trash can receptacle to clean the dried ketchup that had slopped in there. It was the most honest expression that he could find, crawling inside the trash can. He had not seen anyone else do it, it was just his intuition that lead him in there. He felt safe inside the trashcan receptacle, cleaning the dried ketchup. It felt honest in there. 



“Did it feel honest, my Son?” asked the mother? Did it feel safe in that trashcan?”



When the young man was in the trash can he felt that no one would question his willingness. He sat in there with the dried ketchup. It was a moment of surrender. He surrendered to the lowest possible task, the one that he knew no one would question. No one would question his willingess or his commitment when he was in the trash can. He was safe in the trash can receptacle, scraping the dried ketchup off the walls.



And so it went that the young man continued making peace with this world, working for minimum wage at the Braums Ice Cream and Dairy Store. He got the job at Braums immediately after he had sold all that he had to buy the field in which the writer wrote today. After the young husband and wife sold and gave, he and his family moved in with a woman from their church. A strong woman named Maryanne. A spirit filled woman. A woman who said "yes" to the prophets who asked to come live with her. These two brave young souls had just sold all they had in order to buy that field. The final thing that this young couple sold was their white Pontiac. The same Pontiac that had been given to them by the daughter's father, the one who’d warned him about the devil’s cock and semen {autobiographical-historical-fiction}. The one who was right in his discernment. 



The white Pontiac, a gift from the father in law to the family, was the last item they sold. This was the final possession that they sold. The Braums that the young man worked at, however, was over a mile from Maryanne’s home, where they now lived. Sometimes the young man had to walk to work when Maryanne could not give him a ride. 



“BLESSYA” was how the license plate read on Maryanne’s gold Honda. Maryanne, this woman who took the young family into their home. Maryanne, this woman with an entire library wall of spirit-filled Christian books. Maryanne, this woman who had given herself to the Spirit. This woman who had given herself to the saying of “yes” to the Spirit of the Lord.



And so it came to pass that the young family lived with Maryanne.



The young family lived with Maryanne for God knows how long. There really is no telling, dear reader. The wife may still remember, but dear reader, it does not seem a good time to reach out to her right now, as she seems to be uninterested in any friendship.

"Son," Said the Great Mother, "Breathe in. Breathe out."


The young family were given two rooms. They all got along quite well it seemed, to a point. The difficulty began with a deliverance session. 



The man and the woman were interested in sanctification. They wanted all of what God had for their lives. The writer does not remember the exact circumstances under which he and his wife submitted themselves to an exorcism on that evening, as they took turns holding their baby daughter while the other was alone in a room with the two women who had the authority to cast out all types of demons.



The writer does believe that it was during this time that Maryanne discerned that the young wife probably had not truly given her life to the living Christ. This came with some shock as she shared the news with the young husband. He’d never considered this possibility. Maryanne was a mentor of his. She was showing him in the ways of the Spirit. Yes, it was all very confusing to him really.

It was at Maryanne's piano that the young man sat one day and sang this prayer:
"Burn me up, Lord.
Burn me up.
Everything in me that is not love, Lord.
Burn it up.
And when I struggle to escape the flame.
Please Lord, hold me there."


The young man, this one who was in the process of following his Jesus all the way to the end, was more confused than he was capable of understanding. For it was the trauma that those women had tried to cast out of these two young parents that night. Each of these young ones had endured crippling trauma in their childhood. There was not enough help. There was not enough holding. There was not enough understanding within the bounds of fundamentalist Christianity (even the Spirit-Filled kind) for the type of deliverance that these two lovely young people needed.



The couple both understood that it was time for them to leave Maryanne’s house. The young man was stretched between these two women—his wife the one he was trying to love with all of his heart, and his spiritual mentor who had informed him that his wife was in need of salvation. Dear reader, I think you can see how this could be confusing for a young man raised in a deeply-hurting-home with very little in the way of effective people skills.



And so it came to pass that the young family qualified for a HUD loan and were able to buy their first house. And it was a little red brick house which stood directly in the shadow of a light blue water tower (the same red house they'd rented together before their move down South to farm and study with the Church of Christ Preacher). Maryanne loaned them the money for the red dodge Caravan that would eventually burn up at mile marker 428, just outside the little college-cow-town where the dust blew red like a Martian landscape every spring. 



After the young family was reestablished in a home of their own, the young man was promoted to shift manager and he was given a position at the busiest Braum’s store in the state of Oklahoma, located at the intersection of 122nd and MacArthur. The young man arrived at this store with a very short haircut. You see, dear reader, he wanted more than anything to become a police officer. 



He was trying desperately to make some sense of his life. There was a story that he was trying to tell about himself. The story was of a powerful young man who once was lost and now he was found. A man who used to smoke pot and play music, but who turned his life around and became an upstanding member of his society. 



He was ready to join. This young man who had an emotional breakdown at Army basic training, this young artist, he was still cutting his hair short and trying to join something. He wanted to be held. He wanted so deeply to be held by the system, by the kin-dom that was all around him. 



God was no longer speaking to him in the way that He had in the beginning of his salvation experience, and now he felt that all that was left to do was find a way to be. He was constructing his life’s container. He was saying “yes” to the form that was. And it looked like it would be great fun to carry a gun and talk softly and calmly into a radio. He imagined himself finding the same respect that the officers had at his church.



The man’s wife dropped him off at Braums that day. She drove him to work so that she could have the car to run errands. The young man who was sitting in that car that day did not want to go to work at Braums. He wanted to be a police officer. He was becoming depleted. His job made him feel terrible about himself. The angry customers were more than the could bear.



Dread filled the young man’s heart as he made his way through the parking lot. He pushed open the double doors. The dread of inevitable failure awaited him within these walls. Although he worked at the busiest store in the state, upper management did not allow enough workers to truly cover the volume of sales that the store did every day. There were always disgruntled customers and long lines. There was nothing the young man could do to prevent this from happening. 



He ran around as fast as he could, the shift manager, trying to serve as best he could, sometimes speaking Spanish to his fellow Mexican employees. This made him feel kind and open to the world. Speaking Spanish to his fellow employees made him feel as if he was growing, or travelling, or learning, or respecting others in a way that he had never before. Even when he made a fool of himself in the speaking of the foreign language, he felt good about himself and his effort.



On the evening shift, customers rarely stopped pouring in the doors. “Oh, they look so miserable waiting in line,” the young man thought. “Oh, these people are so angry. I can hardly stand angry people,” said the young man’s traumatized little boy who was imprisoned in fear deep in the man’s chest. “They get so angry when their order is not right. There’s just nothing I can do about this. This is too much! We can’t handle it here! It’s not safe here! We’ve got to get out of here,” cried the scared little boy. 



This was how it came to pass that one day, after struggling with this situation for weeks, the young man found himself unable to move. He stood there by the ice cream freezer at the entrance to the work area. He imagined that the stickiness from the ice cream on his shoes was preventing him from taking the next step. But he knew that it was not the ice cream that was preventing him from moving. It was something else. What prevented him from moving was something inside him. He could not tell if he was unable to move, or if he was just unwilling to move. There was something inside of him that was unwilling to move. It was the same something that he had forced himself past many many times in the months that he had been working at Braums. It was why it felt safe in the trashcan. It was an unwillingness that he knew how to override, but in this moment, the unwillingess seemed to be speaking to him so calmly, so quietly, in such a voice that he knew he would not pick up his sticky feet to scoop another double dip from the freezer.



“Were you there with me, Mother?” questioned the middle-aged-man, “What is it that I need to see here? Please shine your light on my insides. How do I take the next step, Great Mother? This is so much bigger than I am. I’ve walked away so many times. I’ve picked myself up so many times. I am tired mother. As I look at the suffering of this young man I realize the immensity of it all. I am deeply humbled by life. I am scared sometimes that I am just not enough for all of this. Can you see my insecurity Mother? Can you see how I am hurting? Can you see my tenderness? Are you going to tell me what is wrong with me Mother? How will I recover? How will I live. I sit here typing, Mother. I sit here, hoping that you are continuing to open my heart. Shine your light, dear Mother. Please illuminate my heart.”



And so it came to pass that the young man did pick up his feet, but it was only to take a step backward to where his manager was sitting at a booth. He was working on the schedule for the upcoming week. 



“How can I help you?” the manager asked, as the young man presented himself.



“I’m done,” said the young man, “I can’t work here anymore.



The young man informed his manager that he was done, that he could not work another minute and he walked out the door without a job. His wife and child arrived in the red mini-van to pick him up, this young man who had just quit his job because it was too overwhelming. He didn’t have the heart for that. 



Many jobs came and went after that. He worked in construction, the second man on a two man crew run by a white-haired Vietnam veteran who treated him well, Tom Neeley was his name. 



At guitar center, he hid in the acoustic room, seeking refuge from the chaos in the main sales floor. All those flashy guitar licks and chum-chumming out in the main room was overwhelming for the young man. Do you know what was also overwhelming to the young man? The pressure to sell. He was not a "closer," is how the boss-man at guitar center described it. He liked to show people guitars, but he was definitely no salesman. And definitely not a "closer."



He eventually realized his dream and became a police officer, where he was shown the injustice that the justice system heaps on those who it was created to serve. After leaving the police force, he was depressed and resentful. He made music until the family’s money ran out. That’s when the family found themselves moving to New Mexico where the dust blows red in the Spring.



With the help of his wife’s aunt and uncle they were hired at a Children’s home in New Mexico. The young man hoped he would discover “true religion” there. The bible said that it was true religion to serve “orphans and widows." The young man tried to follow the words in the Bible as he believed he heard them spoken from God. He was still looking for a form that could hold him. He needed to be held. 



The young man, however, did not feel held at the Children’s Home (This is no surprise to you now, dear reader). 



However, it was then that the music was revived in him. After the selling of possessions. After MaryAnne. After Braums. After working construction. After "not closing" at Guitar Center. After his conversation with the Oklahoma County Detention Officer. After he'd had his vision of "freedom" at the fountain by the bus station in Oklahoma City. After his wife said "no" to installing a hitch on the red van to haul a moldy pop-up trailer. The young man felt that he'd come to the end of himself and all his efforts to join. And that's  when his young family found themselves in refuge at the New Mexico Children's Home. And then...

A musical door opened for the young man. A door that filled him with hope and joy. Over the next years, he was hired to teach guitar and bass at a number of learning institutions. He was given an office in the music building at the local University. His name became known in his small town. The young man was able to feel more self-respect than he ever had experienced in his whole life.



The young man eventually learned to teach with compassion. He practiced and taught his scales and arpeggios. He continued writing songs. He performed, hoping for more respect. He worked as hard as he knew, trying to emulate his incredibly hard working wife. He often felt a part-of-things. But he needed to be heard more. He needed to be seen. He longed to be held, often wanting the Spirit of Music to do for him what the Spirit was apparently not willing to do. 



The Young man produced an album. The young man risked everything to get on the road and promote the album. The young man waited for the recognition to come that he knew that he deserved. He played for appreciative audiences. He had mountain-top performance experiences, but it was never enough. 



He noticed that always, the days after these musical mountain-top experiences, were the worst days of his life. The emotions that he allowed himself to experience during his performance, the attention that he got in those brief moments. He just wanted more. He never wanted to get down off the stage. “Why don’t the people of this world want me to sing for them every day? Wondered the young man. He wanted more and more of the thing that he could never get enough of, which was that feeling of being held, that feeling of acceptance. He wanted respect. He wanted passion. He wanted to be wanted. But he could never feel wanted enough. He began to realize that there was not enough attention in the world to satisfy him. 



The young man, who was not especially young anymore, could feel himself crumbling. He struggled to hold form. He went for three mile runs, forcing himself out on the road with the voice of Drill Sergeant Hilliard in his head. “Get the fuck up, son! Put your fucking shoes on! Push yourself up! You’ve got to want this! Go Go Go. Move, Private!” The man pushed himself and pushed himself to stay with the form. He knew what his wife needed from him: security, the nursery, income. He knew what his children needed from him. Or did he know? What he knew about his children is that he needed to be with them. He needed to stay as close to them as he could. He knew that he could not live with himself if he was unable to stay close to them. And so he did.



He felt that his marriage was becoming more and more like a business agreement. His life felt like an obligation. But, he agreed, time after time to shoulder this weight. He agreed, time after time to see what was best in his wife and in his life, although it so often seemed sorely against his very nature. 



He really did learn to truly appreciate his wife’s strengths--the way that she worked in structure and form, the way she taught her students, the way she lead the family down this pragmatic path after Luke had died (that day when he’d thrown his light saber in the trash square trash can). 



His wife became his greatest guru. It was she who held him closest. He relied on her. She was his compass, his standard for being. He took in her wisdom and did his best to value her vision. He agreed to meet her standards as best he could. He agreed to study under her great strength, to allow her to define so much of reality for him, and because of this the man grew and learned and experienced a life that he would have never had if he had married someone very much like himself. But, it often did not feel like his life was his. 



“What happened there mother?” the middle-aged-man asked, “Was I giving myself away? Was I living? How often was I happy? How true is this story I’m telling? Am I still trying to understand if I feel like I deserved to be left? Am I still justifying myself in the telling of this story? Am I looking at the things I did right and wrong to justify? Or, am I taking a compassionate look at my life? Hey, have you tricked me into doing another fourth step, Mother? Is this another fearless and searching moral inventory? Is that what’s happening here?”



“Peace, Son,” Continue in your work. Know that I am shining on you. Know that we are together. I am caring for you, my Son. Can you see how I have cared for you throughout your whole life? I know that you can see that, my son.”



“Yes, Great Mother. I can see that. I do see your care in my life. I see your care in all our lives. I see your care in the life of the mother of my children. I see your care in the lives of my children. I want to trust you, Great Mother. Fill me with your presence. Help me to sense you, Dear Mother.”



“You are loved, Son. You are not alone,” she cooed. "Was it she that left you, son?"


The middle-aged-man paused. His Great Mother demanded no answers.


Teaching at the Colleges and Universities inspired him to go back to school himself. He studied so that he could treat patients at a physical therapy clinic. He continued teaching and performing, but he was still unhappy. Still sick in the great wanting-of-more. 



“Why can’t you just be content,” the wife’s question rang in his ears. The man did not know why he could not be content. He worked on contentedness. He was developing a spiritual practice, but he was still often restless, irritable, and discontent.



The man struggled with depression, sometimes resigning to sit in front of the TV in the evenings for weeks at a time. The man was smoking marijuana because it made him feel hopeful. He prayed when he got high. He was phasing in and out of life, struggling to say “yes,” using whatever worked at the moment, much like he continues to do today as he writes these words.



One night, as the family walked in the door, returning from a dance recital, their great Shepherd, Hope, raised her head and smacked the youngest daughter in the chin. The man became violent. He wished to kill the dog. He planned to grab the dog and strangle her. He had decided to kill the dog. As the man raged, the wife gathered the dog and the children and locked themselves behind a door. 



The man approached the locked door, his sense of alienation at a peak, his arms were raised to beat on the door. He would smash the door. He would scare everyone in the room that had isolated him out here in the living room where he stood all by himself. He raised his arms as he approached the locked door. His family and the dogs were behind the locked door. He stopped. He saw that he was the abuser now. He saw that he was the father that he hated. He had become the great Clown. Instead of beating on the door, he said “yes” to that death. He lowered his arms and retreated. Defeated. Oh the great distance he still must crawl through that great tunnel of sacred shit!



It was then that he met Penny. Penny, the woman who introduced him to his Pema. The woman who introduced him to unconditional-positive-regard (Hello Mr. Carl Rogers!). Penny, the lesbian that he fell in love with, the one who mothered him, the one who witnessed his tears, his desperate tears that felt like a wall of shame and disgust, a wall that he was unable to maneuver around, a wall that he could not climb over, a wall that he could not crush with his fists. When he hit this wall he cried until he could no longer breathe. He was paralyzed there, at the wall. Unable to move past. He sat on Penny’s couch and cried and cried. He began a long process of releasing the trauma that had turned him into the very monster that he despised. He found that he really enjoyed opening up in the therapy room. He enjoyed the feeling of vulnerability. Penny created for him a safe environment. He believed. He began to believe there was hope.



As he realized how hurting he truly was, he integrated marijuana into his every day life. He attempted to respect the marijuana as a medicine. He went back to school. He became more disciplined. He left the marijuana. He graduated from school. He went back to the medicine. 



He felt that he was so often desperately patching himself back together again. His life was an inflatable life raft, always springing holes, and he was always patching those holes, hoping that the sharks wouldn’t circle around him again. 



Death and rebirth. He reinvented himself dozens of times. He always hoped that there would not be another death, but another death always followed. The pain. The self loathing. But, what he had come to call his "trauma," continued to surface.



Penny told the man that he was one of the “top five self bludgeoners” that she had ever met. The man could now see, in his own heart, how deeply this hate ran in him. He was unwilling to beat down the door. He was unable to abuse the dogs any more. The hate had to go somewhere, so as a public service of sorts he directed the hate inward on himself. This is all that he knew to do. This self-hate that would eventually destroy him. The hate that would, again and again, lead him to his death. The hate that he'd been born into. The sin that he'd been born into. A prodigal son born to a prodigal people. The hate would lead him to a deeper and still deeper experience. A burning, in which he hoped God was truly holding.



And so it came to pass that the man was journeying inward, toward the source, toward the One-ess, toward a deeper and deeper salvation, toward a Deeper Power, a Higher Power, making friends with the Snake, slowly reconciling himself to the Christ that was being born in his own being, slowly making peace with God, Slowly making peace with the great What-Is, the I AM-ness. 



And now, as the writer sat on his bed, one day after Christmas, his story continued to emerge before him. These words emerged from this middle-aged-man who was still in desperate search for his salvation. This mother, this father, this artist, this friend, this man who was trying to give himself away to something bigger than himself, this man who was saying "yes" and still trying to save his own life. So it came to pass that the prayer continued to go forth from his being, calling out to the only One that could help him to die well. The Christ that he had forsaken. The Self that he had walked away from.



“Please mother,” prayed the middle aged man, “Please hold me. Please don’t let me miss this. Please open my heart. Please help me to feel your love in my being. Please care for me.” 



And so it came to pass that the witer closed his laptop, plugged it in to charge, and started the business of preparing for a trip to Oklahoma City. Tomorrow, if everything went as planned, he would drive East with his children to see both his mom and his dad. 



The man had watched this trip approaching for weeks now. And this is the story of how the man said “yes” to whatever was to come. that nigh, the middle-aged-man sang songs of praise with the guitar in his hand. And he loved the (his) cat Eli. 



So it was that he accepted the gift of this room in the impressive adobe house. Please know, dear reader, that he found comfort in your Presence. He took comfort in you that felt very real. {God bless you, dear reader, for being with us today. Together, we are discovering our common work, our common stories and our common love. & Rule#62} 



The middle-aged-man, at the Adobe house with the vaulted ceiling, again said "yes" to the death and resurrection process. He allowed the words to keep coming from his curled fingers, even as his laptop was closed, not needing to know the exact purpose of these words. 



He clung to this form. He clung to these words that you read now. He gave them his greatest attention, trusting that the Mother and Father were doing a healing work in his being.



He clung to form while releasing his life. He said "yes" to whatever hidden lessons that God may have shown him through the medicine. He gave deep thanks and made his words an offering. He asked that these words would become a prayer for his healing and the healing of all who might find communion in the altar that he was constructing here, this altar of his life, which would hopefully communicate the great message of the Universal Christ and the great Mother and Father. {see "Medicine Men & Psychotropic Cocktails}



May all who approach this altar, may all who find shelter here in these words, please join the dying author in his prayer for the Great Turning. May a deeper vision manifest itself in every being who communes here. May these words do their part to assemble a great Union, a great gathering of those who were beyond reach. May these words touch those who are imprisoned and unable to commune with the grass and the soil. May there arise from within us, dear reader, a great healing. May there be a great coming together. A great re-membering. Ring the bells for the great assembly! The second coming of Christ. The birth of the Christ Daughters!



And so it is that I leave you, once again, dear reader. My beloved. I am the one who demands no attention. The one you will forsake three times even before the cock crows. That’s okay. That’s the way of life. For you, I have unconditional positive regard. For you I have the deepest acceptance and love. For you I will give all of my being. 



Please, God

Allow this to arise from deep within us all



Amen

Selah



Hands together

Thumbs on forehead

Bowed toward the deepest heart in all gratitude and Praise



 

 

 Day 8

9:36PM



And so it came to pass, dear reader, that after the man had closed the laptop and then opened it again, he resumed his preparations for travel. 

 

 

 
END DAY 8

Cuts: 











 

 

Father? Yes, Son. I need help...does the help come from within or does it come from without? Dave and Eileen...Eileen and Dave? I’m going to leave it just as it came out and wait for feedack on this). 





 





Standing in the kitchen was a relief for the witer who was still discovering the proper body-mechanics of writing. Praise be to the ones who sat, chained behind desk-top computers, composing drafts for years before the laptop came to be. Praise be to the chromebook and the ONE who supports its inward workings. Praise be to the those who literally copied and pasted. Praise be to the ones who hand-wrote manuscripts, to those who could not casually peruse their work, adding and subtracting at will and with ease of a backspace button. Praise be to the ones who passed down stories orally. Praise be to the cave painters. Praise be to the hunters and gatherers. Praise be to the ones who heard the pulse of life in their own footsteps and then beat two sticks together in time. Praise be to the Great Mothers’ heartbeat, our first intimate sound, our first loving rhythm, the beginning of all rhythms as known today. 



The birth of the reader in the death of the author

The birth of the audience in the death of the performer.

The birth of mammal in the death of the dinosaur

The birth of deeper consciousness in the death of the Christ?

The birth of the human in the death of the planet?









Is that what’s happening. Is our planet dying for us? Are we witnessing the death of our Mother? The giving tree? Surely our planet is not the giving tree? Isn’t that a dysfunctional story, a story of codependence? Or is that the story of life. The story of life unto death. Where is the boundary there? The boundary between “martyrdom” and Martyrdom? The boundary between a healthy death experience and an unhealthy sacrifice. (is there a death experience born of health? Is there a healthy sacrifice? Yes, one that demands no recognition, neither outwardly or inwardly, one made while holding the suffering and the joy simultaneously).





 

 





