



The Moth, The Mountain, and The Middle-Aged Man: 

Self-awareness Communing with Self-Consciousness



This book is dedicated to those of us who are just out of reach. This book is dedicated to those of us who find ourselves imprisoned and unable to touch the soil. Come, dear reader, be with me now as we taste the grass in our mouths as it mingles with our saliva. Let this fluid act as a conduit between us and our Great Mother. Come. Come. It is time.



To Cliff

Kip 

Shawn

& Ken

And to my brother, Kyle

To all those in my life who could see no other path than to take their own



To Kyle Seitsinger, who was killed by a roadside bomb in Afghanistan

To Chad, and all of us who must live on after our brothers are gone



Thank you mother for channeling the Universal Glow. Thanks Dad, for the shadow ceremonies. Thank you, Carol for the beautiful children. Thanks to the Clark family for sharing your strong daughter with me. Thanks to the Bence family for holding us when we needed it so dearly. Thank you Good Doctor, for helping me out of there. Thank you Chris Moore for witnessing the Christ wake up in me again. Thanks to fullness Christian Fellowship and those women, Laura Leigh and Maryanne who taught me to intercede. Thanks to all the guys in Inside Outfluence. Thanks Matthew Hope, my Rucker Brother. Thanks Brian for telling me that pain is only an illusion. Thank you Dan G for keeping the doors wide open. Thanks to Adam Lau who brought Jesus to sleep in our garage. 



Gig

John Coltrane

Elvin Jones



The writer would like to acknowledge Dave and Eileen (Eileen and Dave) for being there in the days preceding this project and in showing so much support (And thanks for lunch and the free masterclass in Bentonville). The writer would like to thank his Mother, The Universal Glow. The writer would like to thank his father for all the good gifts that he gave. The writer would like to thank Tim and Jolee Bence and their children Rebekah and Moria for holding him and his family. The writer would like to thank Bruce Sanguin for helping him to see see the Evolutionary Christian Mystic in himself. Thanks to Adam Lau, who brought the Christ to sleep in his garage. Thanks to Kevin Chapman who sang to him of the Midnight Owl. Thanks to Brian Neely for the plate spinning lessons and giving him an Inkling. Thanks to Tom Neeley for showing him how to measure once and cut twice (oh wait, is that the other way around?) Thanks Carol, for being one of the greatest teachers in my life, and sharing so much of your strength and practical wisdom. Thanks to Doc and Lee. Thanks to David Wilcox and his Clan (my clan). Oh no! this is the impossible task…how to give thanks for the ALL. How does one give a thanks for all the gifts that were given. It becomes impossible, does it not? But what a gift to try. Forgive me, dear ones who may not be mentioned. Kyle Carter, the one I didn’t mention in the Rucker Brothers acknowledgements, I mention you now, my brother. Jimi Hendrix. Fred Rogers. Eric Clapton. Ken Wilber. James Taylor. My brother Kyle. Thank you Eli (our cat), for checking in on me when I was folded in so deeply on that Christmas day. Thank you, My Pema. Thanks to the Owl Mother and the Universal Stan (the one who brings us all together). Thanks to the ENMU music department and all the dear friends there. Thanks to Ed and Delia. Stefan and Sanas. Amanda, Roger, and his stacks of harmonicas. Praise be to God for the Eastern High Plains of New Mexico. 



The Moth, The Mountain, and the Middle-Aged-Man is a story of redemption. 
It's A story of a Universal man who says “yes” to life over and over again. 
The story of a fluid man. 
The story of an individual who lets go of certitude to find the Universal love within himself. 
The story of a man who makes peace with his feminine nature, in order to find his masculine BaCkBoNe. 
It is the story of a son who longs to make peace with his father. 
The story of fathers who long to be with their children. 
It is the story of a man who loves his Mother. 
It is the story of a Universal Snake unwinding within a man--the same snake that circles upward through his Chakras. 
It’s the story of a Universal Cat who shows the way back to the wild. 
It’s a story about the-embracing and the-letting-go of form to allow the deepening of consciousness in the individual, and the collective. 
It’s a story about going to the places that scare you. 
It’s a story about going past the point of no return. 
It’s a story about the wisdom in the mushrooms that turned the rocks into soil. 
It’s a story of the Chiefs who hold form. 
It’s the story of the ones who can’t be held by the form that the Chiefs hold. 
It’s a story about becoming Trans-Rational/Trans-Plural and integrating all the forms that had to be forsaken to get where we are today. It’s a story about a writer, an artist, a musician, and a tree Goddess. 
It’s a story of the One who simultaneously holds the suffering in one hand and the joy in the other. 
This is the story of a man who is delivered from exclusive bible-belt-fundamentalism and into the absolute openness of the Universal Christ (for a Christ who is not Trans-Universal is not Universal at all). 
It’s a story about the infinite depths of the human being. 
a story of the infinite expanse of the Cosmos. 
a story about the breath of God, the name that cannot be spoken. 

This is a story of a finger which points to the moon. 
This is a story of two shoe salesmen who arrive in a town where no one wears shoes. 
This is the story of the infinite as expressed through limited form which is transcended time and time again through the course of a lifetime. 
This is the story of letting Go. 
The story of releasing. 
Of floating. 
Of trusting 
of being. 
This is the story of experiencing rather than believing.
 This is our story of growing up. 
It’s the story of a reformed, atheist Buddhist monk who asks a man to do a miracle for himself in the rewriting of his story. 
This is the story of a man who has lost his family and his job, a man who has broken all the promises he ever made. 
This is the story of a man who has no home to call his own. 
This is the story of a man who has no righteousness of his own, but accepts the free gift of unconditional positive regard offered to him by a Universal Presence with wide open arms. 
This is the story of a 21 day real-time journey of healing as documented by the man who is on it. This is the story of the narrator who allows the story to be lived through him. This is the story of an author who chooses to die so that his reader may find new life.



Simply stated, this is a story of a man who reaches out for help…And 
this is how our story begins, with a distress call. 
It is early one Wednesday morning. Our man has just eaten some psychedelic mushrooms. 
But this time, instead of allowing himself to sink into the soil, he begins writing. 
He begins writing an email to two friends, a husband and wife who own a pubishing company. 
He wants to send them a draft of the autobiography that he has already written, but he doesn’t—he withholds—instead he starts a new story. 

A story that begins now with the sending of this email to his two new friends—his two new friends who just happen to own a small publishing company, Muse Harbor



Please pardon the draftiness, after all, it is a distress call. 





 































The Great Religions



The great religions are the ships

Poets the life boats

Every sane person I know has jumped overboard

That is good for business isn’t it

Hafiz?

Hafiz

Translation Ladinsky



Chapter 1

The distress call goes out



Day 1

5:12 AM



A middle-aged man sends an email to Muse Harbor Publishing:



Dear Eileen and Dave

Dave and Eileen? 



I won't struggle with the patriarchy right now. We all understand the inadequacies of language and the suffering that comes with all form. 



I make this offering to you, two fellow human beings who have offered themselves as witnesses to my being. I offer this to both of you with all respect, acknowledging my limited understanding of your personal sacred experience.



I ask that these writings be considered a prayer, a prayer that may transcend us all. A prayer to transcend these identities that we hold to, these sacred forms to which we say “yes.”



 I make this offering to Life. I make this offering now, in real time, my hands managing these keys with significant effort, as I have accepted the God Flesh into my body this morning and have chosen to make peace with this gift today.



I make this offering to the Universe, acknowledging whatever form of support you have already offered me, but expecting no more than what has already been received. I acknowledge that my support flows deeply from the infinite Well within. Also, I acknowledge my own need to receive support and blessings from the “other,” all those blessed forms from which I am currently individuated.



I acknowledge your strength as a couple here on this earth. Two beings that have coupled to continue in your willingness to bring life...to birth life into this world.



I give you thanks

and I make this offering to you..this offering of my life

recognizing that the only ONE that can receive (me) is the ONE.

Still, I make this offering to you both, as sacred beings



I ask to be seen

I ask to be known

I ask to be held

as closely or as far away as your forms allow today



I acknowledge that you are two separate beings, individuated from one another, yet standing together.



I ask for whatever shelter and sustenance you may be able to offer a fellow traveler today.



I humbly ask for your friendship

I humbly ask, again, for your time

I humbly ask you to with-ness (Bayo Akomolafe) me on this journey

I humbly ask you to see what brought (me) here



I make this offering...this draft of (my) life

In full acceptance of all that is...



Selah



today I choose CONTACT

today I choose support

today I choose love



Begin draft:



The middle aged man walked the chilled winter streets of a college-cow-town on the Eastern High Plains of New Mexico. The little town was not the type that most people imagine when New Mexico comes to mind. It wasn't anything like Santa Fe or Taos, those quaint cities with mountains for their backdrop where accomplished artists open up shops to sell their creations to tourists. The far East of New Mexico, while still officially a part of the land of enchantment, has much more in common with the rolls and flats of the Texas Panhandle. "The land of the scrub brush and awfully high winds," is how the middle aged man often described it. 



During his first Spring there, seventeen years ago, the sky filled with red dust and the ground bustled with tumbleweeds, some the size of Volkswagen Beetles, which rolled menacingly across Highway 70. The smaller weeds appeared to him as escaping convicts, dashing across the roads, leaping barbed wire fences to continue their manic jailbreak across the fields and over the horizon. As he drove his young family to the nearby neighboring city, he was unsure of what to do when encountering these tumbleweeds. Should he stay his course and collide with them, or slam on his brakes risking a traffic accident and the lives of his children in the back seat? 

It was often difficult to predict the path and speed of the rolling vegetation. He imagined himself to be Han Solo, navigating the millennium falcon through an asteroid field. ["No. He didn't actually imagine himself to be Han." said the writer, "but, that IS the voice that I’m making peace with here." 

literary voice {not-literal}. Fictional Autobiography {aren't they all?}... 

He was not Han solo. This particular young man was Luke Skywalker...this young man never ever imagined himself as Han, although the falcon was his dream to fly...he did love the falcon...yes there was something in this young man that loved the Falcon very much...but, this young man was Luke. 

[if I can allow myself to comment on my own draft here...is this part of the creative process? is that how this is done? this email as a part of a greater creative effort...consciousness commenting...looking back on itself?].



The truth is...that this young man had never...ever...thought of himself as Han (although, as mentioned before...he did love the Falcon)....LUKE. there was only LUKE. this young man was Luke.



but, back to these weeds...which were real...Luke is trying to manage these tumbleweeds right now...can I acknowledge Han and the falcon in all of this? what about Leia and her distress message? she’s the one who started this whole journey in the first place. Right? More about Leia later.



Ok...really...back to the weeds....the weeds on the Eastern High Plains...yes...it’s capitalized. Eastern High Plains...



He assumed some of the weeds small enough that maybe it would be no-big-deal running over them, but they were still a problem, as they caught in the grill or the undercarriage and scratched the red paint off his young family’s Dodge Caravan, the same van that would eventually catch fire at exactly mile marker four-twenty-eight on this same highway just a few weeks in this young man's future. 

The red sky, high winds, and sense of isolation on these plains made him feel as if he'd been stationed in a colony on the far side of mars. 

(The far side of mars? Mars rotation does not have the same relationship to the earth as the moon, so there’s really not a “far side” of mars. You can’t do the same with Mars that Pink Floyd did with the Dark Side of the Moon. The moon, strange as it has often seemed to me, is always...yes always facing the earth with the same side toward us. And what I’m wondering now is this: Could this anomaly somehow stand in support of the flat-earth theory? I mean, the only other planet-like object in the sky that I can see with my naked eye appears to me as a disc, not a sphere. When I first watched a flat-earth documentary I was beside myself in confusion. I kept thinking that at any moment the narrator would reveal the film as some kind of test, measuring the audience’s critical thinking skills. But the narrator did not do that, and that’s okay because it still functions as that test, even without revealing itself as such. What I’m saying is that the documentary really caused me to question myself, “What do you REALLY know about the nature of our universe that causes you to experience the earth as round? The flat earth documentary is potentially a genius tool in that respect. And it worked that way for me without the narrator having to blow the cover. In fact, maybe it’s more genius that way. Before we knock or ridicule the flat-earthers, maybe we can at least ask ourselves this question. What do I really know that causes me to believe that the earth is round? This type of thinking is going to be important as we move forward in the evolution of this story.)



Our Luke was now an middle-aged-man. Seventeen years had passed since that first New Mexico spring, and those dust storms. This slender middle-aged-man with the greying beard had recently purchased an olive-drab jacket from Wal-Mart which he felt he needed for a poorly timed and insufficiently planned hitchhiking excursion in the dead of winter. Determined to make it to Oklahoma City to visit his mother, he got only as far as the West Texas town of Amarillo. He arrived there by the generosity of a Truck Driver named Mark...and Joseph....and Brad....



After climbing down from the cab of Mark’s white semi at an Amarillo truck stop , he eventually found what seemed like a suitable on-ramp from which to beg a ride. There he sat, cross-legged with his cardboard sign on the banks of I-40. He remained there for an hour-and-a-half, in the cold, the sun setting. He waited for a ride that was never offered. Frustrated by the law that prevented him from hitching on the interstate, unable to provide his own forward momentum, he resigned to the nearby Denny's and humbly gave up his hitchhike when his younger friend Jerry called to check his well being.



“How are you, my friend? Are you okay? I’m worried about you?”



“Yeah Jerry, I think I’m done. Could you come get me?” said the middle-aged man, the miracle in all that being the man’s seamless transition from determination to surrender without any hint of self-hate (The miracles...that’s our focus here. There are no small miracles. There are no difficult miracles. They are all the same size and difficulty level, flowing from the One heart of love…this is what A Course In Miracles was teaching the middle-aged man)



Some were confused by the hitchhike attempt. His youngest daughter asked,

"Is you car broken, Dad?" 



"No," he answered, "I have just always wanted to put a pack on my pack and start walking. I was answering a Call. Trying to be true to my Self. It was the most honest expression today. It was as genuine as I could allow myself to become."



He had recently resigned his job. But, after handing in his resignation letter he found himself unable to work through his two weeks notice. It was then suggested to him that it might be appropriate for him to be placed, once again, on medical leave. He accepted that offer. With gratefulness he accepted all that was offered.



end draft



Dave and Eileen

Eileen and Dave

Today I choose to refrain from sending you a copy of my first autobiography, the one I had planned on sending with this email. But, I do release this to you. I present to you both, in all its fragility, the birth of a new being. the unpredictable. This lifeform in all its potential NOVELTY (Barbara Marx Hubbard and Eileen, nods to you). I pray that this draft may hold both the suffering and the joy simultaneously. 



I heard that Alan Watts died an alcoholic. What does that mean? I honor his death. and I honor his life.



I heard that Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche also had a hard time honoring his form. I honor my teacher’s teacher. My Pema



And the Christ....what are his untold stories?



I used to disqualify the wisdom message if the man didn’t have his shit together. But, I’m finding that’s not at all how it works. 



I honor these beings who have come before me and all the unseen women who supported....who undergirded...from the basement of the being.



the honorable basement, and what is underneath the basement? the earth. the soil. the women beings who have connected me to the soil.s



I honor the strength of the woman I was bonded to for twenty years. I honor her path.



I acknowledge the pain that I received from her as a gift of life.



I acknowledge the pain that I gave to her and I acknowledge that it is now her business how she works with that.



I choose, today, to participate in this form.



I acknowledge the Great Mother....the Universal Mother....The womb from which this consciousness arose. I acknowledge (my) earthly mother...the womb from which this flesh was birthed. I acknowledge their strength. Because of them I am born again today....I attempt to experience that which to me is un-knowable...the birthing of the child. the holding of a child in the womb. I attempt to know the woman, who above all else, is looking for safety and warmth for her children. a safe nursery. The physical form of a nursery....or a nest? a falcon's nest? just a nest....let's leave the myths out of this for the moment. Right now, this is primal...this is biology...this is the coming forth of life...this is the witnessing of what can only be born of the upside down cross.....? Turning form on its head. dare I say....born of the upside down symbol....even to the release of the form, or the letting go of all the form, which is ultimately the death that we all experience...that which was more knowable in us before men (the masculine) tried to conquer the ALL through conquest and then tried to contain the ALL in the conquest stories which came afterward. was Christ a feminine soul in masculine body? these unspeakable things. where gender truly breaks down...where only attraction is found at the base. the same attraction that matter, after the big bang, held for itself. yes...this same attraction in the heart of a mother (which I acknowledge may be un-knowable to me in this form) but which I say "yes" to writing about and possibly knowing more intimately for the sake of my own well-being and possibly the well-being of those “others” I encounter...as I say "yes" to form and all the glories and limitations of its being in (me) the (Christ) the resurrected ONE. the SERPENT) the SERPENT that is longing to make peace with the world (is that true?)....I cannot know the serpent..can I? yes...dare I say...the serpent that lives in me?...can I make peace with this ONE?



Can I make peace with the mother serpent? the one who bore my children...my offspring? can I make peace with her?



resume draft:



That's what happened next...

The man with the beard...he was wearing yellow Elk Skin gloves.

Praise be the Elk mother who gave the man's hands warmth that evening!



The man, the middle-aged man, he took off his gloves.

He removed his cellphone from his pocket.

He typed this message to the woman who bore his children. It was a text message because...(is there a “because” without justification?)



Is there a “because” that does not justify itself...? I will forego the “because”...for now. It will be good enough for now to say that we all understand the suffering that comes with all form.



Here is the exchange, as it was recorded:



Middle-aged man: Could I stop by and say hi? I realized at Thanksgiving that we are still a family. And I'd love, even if just for a moment, to hear how your life is going?



Woman: I'm not really sure I'm looking for a friendship with you. I want for the kids to have a good relationship with you but I especially don't enjoy your current mood state...too manic for me.



Middle aged-man: I understand. Thank you for your honesty. I wish you well.



end draft? again? already? when the veil is torn between that which is written and that which can't be wrote?



Is this what Jesus meant when he said, just as socrates said before him, "I never wrote a book, my dude."



Who was it that said the death of the author is where the reader finds her true birth? I can't find his name...but isn't that the point?



Dave and Eileen

Eileen and Dave

I choose to share with you today.

I say “yes” to whatever support can be offered.

I accept the gift of Life and all that has ALREADY been offered.



I present (myself) to you as the one who crucified the Christ.

I present (myself) to you as the Christ who is crucified

I present (myself) to you as the Risen Christ.



I present to you the ONE who holds the suffering in the left

And the joy in the right



Like when Mrs. Garret sang, “You take the good, you take the bad, you take them both and there you have the facts of life...You remember Mrs. Garret don’t you? Reruns after school...the facts of life?



the ONE holds that which cannot be held



The form that cannot be held



I present to you today the impossible form



The resurrection incarnate



and the image of the impossibly humbled prodigal



...dare I say, Son. Yes, a Son of God who does not have his shit together.



Yes...that is what must be said as I make peace. As I find acceptance.



That is what I must make peace with today. I must say yes to BOTH AND



Or is that what must not be said?



dare I say, Daughter?



dare I surrender my life for the birth of the daughter?



Emma Kate

"pure healing"...the name that cannot be spoken



The name of (my) youngest



The one who is left fatherless?



The one who watches her earthly father struggle to hold a form that cannot be held. a form that this earthly father can no longer hold.



bear witness to this Dave and Eileen. with-ness that which must be seen, but that which demands no witness. because (theres's that word again....the "because"...I’m going to go ahead and use it this time) ‘because” that which transcends all our forms makes no demands for our attention. That which demands no attention will hang on a tree willing-ly. Is that how the story goes? I leave the story to you....the story that demands no witnesses...the story that only attracts, just as the heavenly bodies attract one another? That which cannot be held by any form...but that which I choose to surrender to today. The same surrender that a seed which falls into the ground knows intimately as its death brings forth a great tree. That type of natural surrender that can only be witnessed in this draftiness, in this depth of transparency, where form becomes flow.



I make peace with this gift that is being offered.



When do I press "send"?



the button presents itself to me now and so I leave y





