Day 7

3:13 AM

Christmas morning



“Awe is the capacity to let the other be the other without having to appropriate and incorporate it into the ego.”

Bruce Sanguin



With the coming and going of Christmas Eve, and the arrival of an early Christmas morning, the dying author felt. The author sat in the tiled living room, his laptop right where it was designed to be (in his lap), coming to grips with the what was happening in his being. “Do I write about this sense of loneliness? This sense of alienation? Is that the path today?” he presented his question to the Universal.



The writer (this dying author, the one who prayed for his own death that you may live, dear reader) –The writer was reminded of the non-path. He wondered if that had anything to do with him right now. He was only vaguely aware of the miracles that he’d reported thus far in his wiritings which spanned the previous week. 



He breathed in. He breathed out. He remembered his audience. “Is that what a dying author does?” he thought to himself. He sat, facing North, his fingers curled over home-row.



“Is this what Shakespeare meant when he said that all the world is a stage?” he wondered. The dying author acknowledged the comfort that he felt as he was immersed in his work, the comfort he felt in his writing. He found comfort as he cultivated his relationship with his audience, even as his audience may be currently unaware that he was addressing them.” He wondered if they were aware though, somehow. “Maybe this book has already been read,” the writers heart soared with that possibility, “Maybe this book has already been written and is being read by you, dear reader, right now.” What a joyful meditation it was for the writer! “Praise be to the reader who is being born again in our Presence, Mother! None of us are alone!”



They were out there. Those “others.” And just like that, the miracle had happened again. The miracle of non-aloneness that he’d just discovered in the acknowledgment of his audience. He scrolled back up to the words from Bruce Sanguin that he’d transcribed just minutes ago. He wondered, “How do we allow the other to be other? How do we allow the other to be other without incorporating them (he scrolled up again)…without appropriating them into the ego? He wondered if he knew anything about what Bruce was talking about here. He didn’t want to miss that, so he went back to the reading.



Sanguin goes on to speak about these peak experiences that we have as humans, these mountain top experiences that we have, these mystic experiences, and he exhorts his audience to give them as much attention as possible. 



“Bruce is giving me permission to let these peak experiences guide my life. Thank you Bruce, for giving me the gift of my birth in your writings! Thank you for dying that death, so that I may now live. Thank you for embodying the Universal Christ!” 



Bruce postulates that we may have some kind of hangover from the rising of the age of reason, that our “robot” (left() brain may have taken over our beings, and that this is why the world seems like “one damn thing after another.” The medicine, he says, allows us to connect more deeply with our right brain experience, the reality of the poet and the artist and the dancer, that part of us who experiences the world in its sensory fullness, that part of us who experiences the world in all its connectivity and one-ness. He goes on to speak about one of his medicinal experiences:



“…After the serpent moves through my body in the ceremony, I am directed to put my hands together in the prayer position, place my thumbs on my forehead and bow toward my heart. Try it. Hold this postion for thirty seconds or more. You may discover one or more of the following things happen: less thinking; no thinking at all; deeper, more rhythmic breathing; a sense of calm; absence of worry; feelings of gratitude.”

Bruce Sanguin, Dismantled



Dear reader, the dying author, in his participation with Bruce’s suggestion, is once again reconnected to Source. I am the Author who has died who is now willing to speak through all of us. Who is this being, you may ask, who is speaking? He is the one who is deepest within you. 



Bruce, one of the Chiefs (those kachinas) who, for years and years, said “yes” to the form. He left his form behind. He dropped his nets in order to follow. He left behind that which he knew in order to follow, in order to go deeper into the Being-ness of it all. Thank you, Bruce. I give you thanks.



The writer (the wildly talented writer?) realized that he’d unconsciously crossed over into a genuine expression of first person as he’d finished that last paragraph. He left it there, just as it was. Let it be an altar. “Is this what the death of the author is?” he wondered. This genuine expression of first person.” The I AM. “The I AM is in first person, isn’t it?” he thought to himself. He found company in Self. He found company in that genuine expression of first person.



“Dear, Mother,” the man prayed. “Will you help me to acknowledge the “other” without incorporating them into my ego? Is that possible? Can I witness the “other” without appropriating them? Will you allow me, Great Mother to stop re-traumatizing myself and the “other” in this way? Open my eyes, Mother to the ways in which I appropriate the “other.”





The time was now 4:12 AM. It had taken the author fifty-nine minutes to find his breath. Fifty-nine minutes to find his Love. Fifty-nine minutes to find his Self. Fifty-nine minutes to fall in love. Fifty-nine minutes to leave behind his misery. To leave behind his suffering. Fifty nine miutes to see this miracle come to pass. Praise be to the snake that moves through us, the ONE who circles back!



The writer sat in awe and reverence with his hands in prayer position, thumbs on his forehead, experiencing his own breathe, the Yaweh, the name that cannot be spoken, the Presence. His breathing slowed. He allowed himself to fall into that deep trance that he’d discovered when he’d become the snake as a seven year old boy. When he’d been transformed, slithering on his belly up to his parents room, and down the laundry chute to the basement, where he curled up into that deep meditation. That deep ophidian sense of stillness.



The stillness was profound. He was able to be with his breath intimately here. “What a gift, to have made peace with the snake,” he thought. What a journey. What a long journey. To make peace with that which the world thought to be the Satan. He sat with that thought. Surprised by the fear. “The serpent? Should I be saying that? The one who scares us? The Satan? The one who was damned to crawl on his belly. Wasn’t he already crawling on his belly? Wasn’t that his nature? What does it mean to be that low? To be that in touch with the earth? How grounded is that? Maybe we are just afraid of being on my belly in the grass. Maybe we are just afraid to return to the earth from which we came.”



Who are the entities who threaten us? Are they out there? If the snake is not my enemy, then who is? What is this genuine expression of first person? Who am I? Who are you? Are we here together? Audience? Deceased author? Is this what it means to be an author who has undergone this dying process (made peace with the snake). 



The author who has died can walk in other realms. The author who has died is free to be with you here. Now. The author who has died is not bound to his laptop in one particular moment in time. The author who has died is free. The author who has died is with you now, the audience, accompanying you in your death and resurrection journey. “Her I am. My dear?”



There it was. The author, in his attempt to type Here I am, had actually typed “Her I am.” And there she was. The one who was been rising up. He felt a tingling in his kundalini region. There She is. There I am. And this is how we arrive here together, in this very fluid state of being, where we are no longer holding on to these very fragile identities, where we allow ourselves to flow in and out, just as fluid as we need to be. The author, once again, brought his hands together in prayer position, his thumbs on his forehead, he bowed to his heart…Her heart.



Is it true that there is no male or female in Christ? Who wrote that, and what was happening there? Maybe I’m missing the point here. I mean, is this about me becoming a woman? Is this about me coming out of the closet? Is this about having sex with men. Is this about putting on women’s clothes? Is that what I’m coming to here? Or is this about something deeper than that expression (not that there’s anything wrong with that! Seinfeld! LOL)? But really, is this about something deeper than a man pretending to be a woman? Or maybe I just don’t understand the depths of what it means when a man dresses up like a woman. What am I giving myself to here? I do not know. But, right now, I trust. I trust. I am facing the unknown as I allow this “Her” to arise from within.



Maybe the “Her” is not a her at all. Maybe the Her is a construction. Maybe the Her is one side of the binary in the evolution of all consciousness. I’m not saying that male and female are strictly constructions, obviously there are differentiated sex organs. That’s hard to get around. But, that which is inside of us, is it not that which is much more fluid than we (i) have allowed it to be? Is this what I’ve been trying to make peace with all of my life, that my children’s generation seems to be more comfortable with than I am? Is this what I’ve been dying for? Is this that which I thought I needed to kill myself in order to avoid? Is this the serpent that I saw in the mirror? How do I embrace this? How do I become this? How do I allow this to arise from within? How do I surrender? What does that look like today?



“Father?”

“Mother?”



“Merry Christmas, Son.”



A child is born.



Day 7

The number of completion

4:44 AM





The wildly talented writer had seen yet another miracle come to pass. He wondered how he could still doubt so often and so much. “Doubt!” he proclaimed, “IS the practice!” He wondered why still, so much of his being seemed to be intent on misery. It was also no wonder why he’d been so miserable as he’d spent so much of his life as a square peg, trying to jam his self into a painfully round hole. He’d hammered and hammered and hammered away, becoming angry with himself when it didn’t work. He heard the call to freedom as a young man, but he wasn’t ready. But no, not yet! He needed something else. He needed to learn something else. He wasn’t ready to die. 



But, here. Now. Here sat a man who was ready to pass over. He was ready to 

leave behind those parts of his being that could not make that journey. He was ready to leave behind those parts of his being that were unable to be with you, dear reader. He was ready to make the connection. He was ready to communicate. He was ready to go out. He wanted to be a disciple. All things to all men. He was ready. Here sat a man with a laptop, in an adobe house, in a little college-cow-town where the sky had turned red so many years ago.



Arise from within, Shakti. The serpent who is coiled at the base of being. Arise feminine spirit. I give you safe passage. I say “yes” to you. I say yes to life. I say yes to this transcendence. I say yes to whatever it may bring. I say yes to this narrative. I say yes to this life. I ask you to live your life through me. I say yes to this process. Please help me to see when I am blind to your Life and Purpose. I offer this vessel as a living sacrifice. I give it away. I face the unknown. The mystery. I say yes to your deeper presence, your deeper power in me. Hands in prayer position. Head bowed. Her I Am.



The musician picked up the guitar. Praise be to the wood and steel. Praise be to the maker, the hands who assembled the sacred being of sound!



Naked is the way I came

And so I give myself away

I give myself away



The dying author

Consumes the God’s flesh!

The medicine



“What is your intention?” asked the Universal Shaman who’d spoken to him through his brother just days before.



My intention is to commune with that which is



My intention is to offer myself



I offer this being to you, deep Sister



know the snake 



allow the kundalini to unwind from the roots

move up through this body

the intention is to allow

the intnention is to give

and to receive

In ways formerly unknown



I intend is to know fluidity

to allow life to be lived through me

to move with life at the pace that it is moving

No slower

No faster



I intend to bow with reverence to all that is

to offer hospitality to all guests



I intend to surrender to a deeper power

a greater power than this flesh

a greater power than this ego



to include all that has been and all that ever was

to embrace all that which I have fought

I intend to include

all those who have been left out

My intention is to allow The Christ

to be



I want to know the Christ

The power of his resurrection

The fellowship of sharing in his sufferings

Becoming like him in his death

And so somehow 

To receive a resurrection from the dead

To live a resurrected life

To know that which was before unknowable

To accept

To truly live life

Unafraid

Willing

Honest

Open 

Generous

Compassionate

Full

Empty

Ready



The dying author folded his half-crocheted blanket neatly, but not perfectly



He laid the thick blanket on the floor, then he assumed half-lotus



He sat. He waited to be consumed by the Snake Woman…again



Help us to move at the speed of life,” he prayed.



“Speed of life…people banded together moving at the speed of life.”



A people in communion….singing the praises of Life 



Speed of Life



I acknowledge you…In all your presence



I acknowledge you



Thank you, laptop by which I speak

Thank you glasses, by which…through which…I see



The presence…I acknowledge you medicine…mushrooms….I give you thanks



I presence



I give thanks for all that I have rec…he could not understand I befor e excapt afer c



The author who was dying



He had taken more in than ever before

His scale did not work well

He just ate/drank all that was left



A move of abandon

Letting go of the medicine by taking it all in

Now he wondered

Now he allowed

He accepted what was…

And all that had been



And so he left his audience

He could hear his bathwater running

He would make this peace now 

Without his laptop

Without his glasses

But never leaving you dear reader…

Until that is what is required…remembering Ram’s passing



Thank the ALL (ya’ll) for the hot bathwater

peace



N



Day 7:

9:35 AM



Last artifact…the “N”



He had ingested a lethal dose



He had an opportunity to make peace with the “he’d” that he’d been wrestling with. And the red that kept showing up after he misspelled a word.



He had the opportunity to make peace with these things



To make peace with these words



“if the ambulance is gonna come…let’em come to a singing man!”

If the ambulance is gonna come…let’em come to a home where the dishwasher is running, Oh lord



He’d seen his own death. He watched the light change into a greenish hue right before he made peace with the water dripping from his still soaked hair. As he made peace with the tile that was streaked with water. This was his altar. The place where he, once again, clasped his hands and asked life to be lived through him. This is the altar from which he rose that day after having taken a lethal dose of the medicine. He finally purged. The purge. He purged into the bathwater. He purged into the hot bathwater. Right there at the front of the tub, he purged. And he sat there for the moment, that which he had purged forming tendrils around his skinny legs. He had finally purged after ingesting a lethal dose of the medicine. Socrates?The man faced his own death. He was unable to return to that which he knew, which was life. The lethal dose of medicine, he’d purged the excess, that which was not required. That which was not required, that which he felt would surely killed him if left to absorb into his biological system. There was wisdom in his body. Therefore, there was a purging. The purge finally came. He’d heaved and heaved earlier in bed trying to purge into his sacred grapefruit container, the one of which he could now only locate the blue lid. He’d wretched like his life depended on it, his mouth inside the grapefruit container, but nothing would come out. He was so deep in the soil



“Merry chistmas” from Eb on facebook messenger. 

I ate all that I had left. It was a lethal dose. I finally purged. I prayed. I sang. "If the ambulance is gonna come, let'em come to a singin' man." and later, "If the ambulance is gonna come, let'em come into a home where the dishwasher is running." I saw my own death, Eb. The light from the window changed. I clasped my hands in prayer. I asked to live. Then, with all the tools I'd ever been given employed, I watched myself say yes to this life.



He didn’t send the message to his friend, Eb



He cut it



He pasted it here, dear reader.



“I’m exhausted,” he said.

Spent”



It was a lethal dose, dear reader, one that had lead the middle-aged-man to believe that he was dying.



He lost his mind

He was gone

Irretreivable

Left to wait

He saw the light change as he lay naked, there on the floor

It was time to call the ambulance, to reach out for help

He saw the ambulance arrive

He saw himself full circle back in Roswell

It made every bit of sense

It was time to reach out for help

He was dying

He had lost his mind

He could not come back

He would die on this christmas day

Or worse

He would be unable to retrieve his mind

He would be lost in a psychosis

From which the only recovery

Would be self-inflicted death

Just like Cliff (who chose his path in anguish)

Just like Shawn (Dear Shawn Solo)

Like Ken (that brilliant smile and twinkling eyes)



He clasped his hands on the floor

Slick on the tile

His hair still dripping from the shower

Which he hoped would bring him back

But it didn’t

He stood in that hot shower saying “yes” to life

His first attempt

He’d (there’s the “he’d” again)

All praise the “he’d” from which we are delivered



But, dear reader, he did make it back, the medicine having done its work in him



He sat now in his disheveled bedroom

On the floor

At an altar

His laptop sitting on the old milk carton

Praise be to the old milk carton! Who held his form magnificently

He sat there in the half lotus

Constructing an altar with these words

Nodding to the form

Which he’d been devoted to these last seven 

Days

Continuing with the resurrection 

He retired to his bed at 10:21 this christmas morning of the year 2019, knowing that Christ wrote no book about himself.



The writer rested for 17 minutes. That’s how long his exhaustion lasted.





Day7

10:38am



The writer rose from his bed. He collected his laptop from the floor. He pulled it into bed with him. He was still pretty exhausted. But something was rising from within.



All the boys who lost their lives

So impossibly far away from home

So impossibly far away from mother

Watching the light change

Embraced by their brother, possibly

Possibly gone before any thought

Came to them

Of their demise

Kurt Vonnegut

The Dresden happening

The bombing of Dresden

Making peace with the impossible 

Alien assistance

From another world

Or was it their own alienation, Dave?

Is that what it was?

Dave?

Are you there



Finally, we meet again after all these days

Dave who held me

Dave who asked me to write

Dave who loved me

David?

The heart of David?

Have I circled back?

Back to my origins?



A young man

Resurrected from an impossible life

Resurrected from that which there was no return

Sitting at the top of the stairs

Another shower there was

A shower long long ago

The young man

21 years old

Or was it 22?



He sat at the top of the stairs facing the impossible task of living

Asking himself the question

Before the question was even formed

“How can I live with myself?”

“How can I live with myself knowing what I know about me?”



“How can I live with this disgust?”

“How can I live with this hate?”

“This Shame.”

“How can I live with this trauma?”

But this was before he knew

A deeper truth



He could not possibly understand

So, He prayed a prayer

Something like

“God, I do not know who you are, or that you are even there”

“But if you would save my life, then I’d give you mine.”

“I’d give it to you, Lord”

And for some reason, right now, I’m hearing all this spoken in gaelic tones

Because, truth be told, this particular young man did not use the word

“Lord”



No

He’d never known a Lord

(Except that Vader, that dreaded lord Vader)



Despite the fact that he’d been baptized in the fourth grade

After a baseball game



The hanky that he used

To cover his nose

Stained pink

By the dirt of the red oklahoma soil



Was he embarassed by that?

yes, a little.

I think.

how dirty he was



was he a baseball player

not really

but he did play catcher that year

chasing down balls

thrown by our pitcher

Kyle Seitsinger



A boy that would die in Afghanistan

One of those men

One of those men who go over there

To die in a war

that they did not make for themselves



Yet nonetheless, the war in which

we find ourselves engaged

We find ourselves conscripted somehow



looking for an education?

ready to grow up?

in trouble with the law

searching for a higher purpose?

revenge maybe?

no?



maybe something else

Maybe something bigger than revenge

Maybe we just don’t know

Maybe we just find ourselves joining

Because we are trying to satisfy

This very primal need

To be held



so we find ourselves being held 

By: 

Drill sergeant Hilliard

Who now stands in the shower

Fully clothed in all his military

Regalia

Round brown hat

With a whistle

While you

Stand naked

Except for a pair of brand new

Shower shoes

Black and white

Which hold your feet

Just a few millimeters 

From the shower floor

Surface



And drill sergeant Hilliard

Who yells with a lisp of sorts

Which increases the tension

Because sometimes we truly cannot

Grasp exactly what it is that he is 

Commanding us to do

We are full of fear now

As we are commanded by 

Drill Sergeant Hilliard to shower

more quickly 

than we have ever showered before



And wasn’t it your father?

Dear, writer

Who so poetically

Tore the shower door from its hinges

And screamed at a seventeen year old boy

That sharp toothed clown who wanted to devour you

Were you a

Child?

Were you a

Man?

You were A young person 

Trying to become a man

Is this what you were shown?

“Yes”

“this is what I was shown. And I am still coming to peace with the old man.”



I am still making peace with the world for all of this



It was a lethal dose



And he jumped in the shower, hoping that it would revive him

Because he was losing his mind

He had lost his mind

He lost his mind

It was not pleasurable

His body wretched

Nothing came forward

In the grapefruit container

The kind that you might find in the produce section

With all the sweetened grapefruit

That are already cut up for you

All you have to do is

Dip them out with a large spoon.



Trying to purge

Trying to purge

Praying to God for his life back

Praying to God for another chance at life



Sitting at the top of the stairs

A road side bomb in afghanistan



And that’s how Kyle Seitsinger

The wild pitcher 

That’s how he died



It was 11:05 am on christmas day

The man, the writer, lay in his bed

On his back 

With the tiger blanket 

That his daughter had intentionally brought him

Just days after he left his wife



The tiger blanket propped up his laptop as he typed

He had to pee

He had a chance to pee

He really needed to pee

He was going to go make peace

With this piss



Day 7

11:18am



He faced north again

In the kitchen

His laptop perched upon

His bile (bible)

And all three volumes

Of the course in miracles

The cat scratched at the door

Eli

His friend

Who had checked in on him several times

Earlier that morning

As his body was trying to make peace with the lethal dose of medicine which he’d ingested earlier. His eyes were still dilated. His face still changed form in the mirror which he now faced. His face was the thunderhead. The man in the mirror looked tired. A little scared. He looked exhausted, actually. But, there he stood as Eli crunched his cat food. There he stood, the man who had lost his mind. The man who had lost his mind just earlier that morning. The man who decided to live. The man who had witnessed the texture of the light move from yellow to green. The man who knew that he was dying, or worse, that he would never be able to recover his mind, the medicine still showing him exactly what he needed to see, allowing him to experience exactly what he needed to experience. That he was not as ready to die as he thought he was.



Earlier that morning the man had risen from his kneeling position on the bathroom floor, his hair still dripping from the shower that he’d hoped would be his salvation. But, no. It didn’t quite do the trick. And he found himself desperately trying to make peace with exactly what he was experiencing. The man was gone. He was beyond recovery. And this is what he made peace with that time and time again, the fact that he was gone and he could not come back. As calmly as he could, he embraced the hopelessness of his situation as his mind turned over and again upon itself. 



He had witnessed the great folding in. Like blueberries in the muffin mixture that come in the can. His earthly mother had shown him how to rinse the blueberries in a colander so that they didn’t stain the whole lot purple. She showed him how to fold (not stir!) them into the mixture. They were folded over and over. 



The man had seen that this was how we are, like the blueberries in the mixture that his mother had so thoughtfully instructed him with. This is how we all make sense of our reality. We are folded into this mixture, turning over and over again, so that no one really has any control over any of it. We find ourselves meeting blueberries that we hadn’t seen for three or four or eight turns of the mothers rubber spatula. Yes. I was mothered. I was mothered. Thank God I was mothered by a woman who was trying to find herself. I was mothered by a woman who finally said, “That’s enough.”



And while her husband was gone away for some military training in Caifornia, she left. She checked in with her children, maybe even asked for their permission, which was freely given by the eldest son who was living life as if he was still in that shower being screamed at by the father. Was he still paralyzed in that shower? At any rate, he was full of a a lot of “fuck yous!” for his old man. 



The mother asked permission from her oldest son. Maybe she just wanted to know what he thought. Maybe she just wanted to know that he had seen what she had seen. Maybe she was just looking for a witness. Maybe she was reaching out to one of the only people in the world who she knew could understand what had just happened over the last 19 years. And what she found in her oldest son was as follows:



“Fuck him. Fuck that old man. Fuck that man who left me fearful in the shower. Fuck that mother-fucker who ripped the shower door off the hinges and screamed at me while I stood there paralyzed. Fuck him, Mom. You need to get the fuck out of here.”



And so it was that the mother left.



The nineteen year old Son stayed. The son stayed with the father. He did not go with the mother. The middle-aged-man does not remember if the invitation was given or not to go with his mother. The young man’s fifteen year old brother went to live with the mother in an apartment. But the nineteen year old boy-man stayed home with his father. The young man was there at the house. The young man was there at the house when the father came home. His father came home to a partially empty house, but the boy was still there. 



So the young man tried to make peace with his father, who arrived home to a very much empty home. 



“Did he try to make peace?” Aked the Great Mother? “Do you remember what was going on in that young man’s heart, son?”



“Mother?” said the middle-aged-man.



“Yes, Son?” said the, Great Mother.



“Will you help me to release this pain that is still in my heart? Will you help me release this trauma? Will you please take it from me?”



“Let me help you,” said the Great Mother.”



The young man with all the “fuck yous” in his heart, he stayed with his father. 



“Mother,” said the middle-aged-man, “Was he not ready to go? Was he afraid to go out into the world? Was he not ready to make it on his own? Why Mother, why did the young man stay, if he had all those fuck-yous in his heart?”



The man’s wife left him while he was away at military training. 



He was devastated.



The old man was devastated.



This writer cannot speak for what the old man went through after that. 

Just a snapshot that he shared once, a story which was relayed to the writer as something like this:



The old man stood, just inches away from a train. A lumbering train? A violent train? An inevitable train?



That’s the snap shot that the old-man shared with his son of his suicide meditation.



And so it came to pass that the old man blamed his eldest son, as if he had a knowing in his heart that the young man had empowered his woman to go.



And the old-man said to his son--in a fit of deep despair and instanity after he’d come home from military training to a partially empty house and the absence of his wife—The old man said to his son:



“You are the reason for this. This is all your fault. You are the reason she left me. You are the reason for my suffering, you little fuck.”



Praise be to the father. Praise be to this father. Praise be to the father who laid down his life so that his sons may live. Praise be to the father who was kicked and punched by his own father. Praise be to the father who wrestled with his own demons. Praise be to the father who tried. Praise be to the father who stood with his nose just inches away from the passing train. Praise be for the inevitable evolution that was taking place in him. Praise be to the father who was still a child. Praise be to this wounded one. Praise be to this hurting child. 



Please father, give him your praise. Give the praise to this son who never received the praise that a son deserves. Praise be to the grandfather, Vince. Vince, the one who only showed love and affection to this grandson. Praise be to all the pain that was carried throughout the generations. Praise be to the men who did their best to make peace with all of this. Praise be to the Great Turning. Praise be to the son’s heart which is turned toward the suffering father. Praise be to the impossible. Praise be. 



God

You must resurrect the old man’s life

For I cannot



“All I can do is meet him at Louie’s restraunt on Lake Hefner this coming Monday.

That’s all I can do father.

I will try to bring the grandchildren to see you

We will allow you to buy us lunch at Louie’s

It will be an honor

Thank you, Father

It will be an honor

I bless you father

With our presence

I say yes to you at Louie’s on lake hefner



The writer was facing North

Looking into the great mirror

Which was in the kitchen

In the adobe house

With the orange-pink floor tiles

Which the writer could still not remember the name of…the floor tiles

He knew they had a specific name

He could not remember that name



It was christmas

He had to pee again



It was 12:01



The writer’s consciousness shifts now, away from childhood, away from the distant past, as he recounts the events of his morning.



The bathtub where he’d lost his mind earlier that day was filthy…

Maybe there was a more gentle word than filthy…

Praise be to the medicine and the wisdom of the earth that resides within

“My purge is not filthy! It is sacred!” the middle-aged-man proclaimed.



And he wrote a song for the mushrooms, praising them for their act of turning the rocks into soil! All praise the fungus! He who helped make the earth what it is today!



The bathtub was littered with the excess medicine

That the dying man had purged

The purge that lingered in the water 

Around his skinny legs

The purge that he’d percolated in for a while 

The purge that slickened his skin



he rose from the cold tile

intent on living

after he’d seen the light change 

from yellow

to dull green

similar to the light change that he’d witnessed when the life had passed from the moth.



More praise be to the Owl Woman who had the middle-aged-man shelter for two nights at the loving cabin!

And more praise also to her mate, The Universal Stan, the one who brings us all together!



The man rose from the tile.

His mind was lost 

(This was nothing but really serious, you guys!

We can smile about it now,

But it was very serious then)

he searched for his pants



If he wanted to live

He knew

He must find his pants



“Forget the underwear!

I don’t need underwear to live,” he said

then he found his pants



his legs were slick from the great-percolating 

his legs were still slick with purge

he didn’t care

(well, he cared. But the purge on his leg was not too concerning in the light of the fact hat he had lost his mind, dear reader)

As he put on his pants he made his intention clear to G_d.

“I want to live, God! bring me back! I want to live! I’m not ready to go. It’s not my time!”



He had lost his mind. He was trying to live. He did not want to die. He had seen the edge. He had looked over. He was looking over the edge just then. Now he felt that he was way past his threshold; As a result he was rededicating himself to his intention to live. 



This man who just hours before, after taking the medicing, proclaimed to be ready to die the death. This very man was convinced that he was in a struggle to revive himself.



The man rededicated himself over and over and over again, praying that his father would bring him back from this death. The man had lost his mind, but he had not fully lost his composure. As he engaged himself in this process, it seemed to him that he had been training for this his whole life. He did not allow fear to have its way, even as he looked fear straight in the eye. 



He put his pants on. He found a shirt. He moved into the day, his mind still lost. He did not know how he would live with himself. He was afraid that his mind would not come back. He was in the great folding of the blueberries, he could not find his way out. He had ingested a lethal dose. Fear was there. Fear was right there. But, he did not do what fear said to do. He continued praying to his Father for restoration. 



He had lost his mind, but there was still hope. He was lost in the great turning-over. The light had signaled his demise. He knew that the might not make it back.



He had felt himself falling in to the changing of the light. But, he was unwilling to let go. 



He said, “No, this is as far as I am willing to go. I cannot go any further today.” 

And then he knew that it was time to call the ambulance to come and get him. He saw the ambulance arriving in his future. He saw himself at the ER. He saw himself back at the Sunrise Mental health facility, the place where he’d just been three-hundred-and-sixty-three short days ago. He knew it was time. It was the only way to save his life. He was dying or he had lost his mind. He felt that he may be forced to end his own life. He was unable to escape from the the great blueberry-batter-turning that he was experiencing. 



But, he accepted what-was. Over and over again he accepted what-was. Fear was speaking. Was fear speaking? The writer does not know now. Surely he could have given himself to fear. But, he did not. There was something deep inside the man that was very calm and knew just how to help the middle-aged-man. And this, dear reader, was a miracle (there are no large miracles. There are no small miracles. They are all of th equal value, and all flowing from the heart of love ACIM).



Over and over again, the man accepted what-was. The great What-Is. The man just kept agreeing with the great folding in that was happening in his being. He was at a threshold. He was at his peak. He wanted to come back home. He wanted to step away from this edge, but he could not. 



And so it was that the man came to find himself now wearing his favorite pair of pants but without underwear because underwear just never really occurred to him. It just wasn’t important. But, he knew that what needed to be done could not be done naked. Not today! He was grabbing for the fig leaf. He was looking for warmth. Praise be to those first beings who thought, “You know what, if we wear fur, we are not as cold. Let’s kill these great creatures, eat their flesh, and wear what they used to wear. Lets use their skin to keep our skin warm.” 



And so went history…the killing of other beings and the wearing of their skins



Selah



The man had pants on, but no underwear. He found a favorite shirt, a cozy longsleeve, textured and soft.



And so it went



The man who had lost his mind

he used all of his tools to find his way back

The man who had reached the threshold

The man who saw the light change from yellow

To a soft green

Just as it had when the moth passed



this was the man who decided to step back

the man who decided to live

the man who went as far as he knew to go 

the man who used the blender to dissolve the rest of the package of medicine

the man who drank it

the man who took it all in

He didn’t measure out the dosage

It was a lethal dosage

So much that his body knew that it must get rid of some of it

The man who had lost his mind



The middle-aged-man was still moving forward with his intent of living:



He was now walking toward the living room

That was where his oldest and most reliable tool was

His guitar

He began the song that had been coming in for weeks and weeks now

He began his song of surrender

He clinged to this form

the neck of the guitar felt foreign to him

but he knew that he could play

and so he did



He played as if his life depended on it

The man who had lost his life

The man who’d seen the light change from yellow

To a soft green.



He sang:

“I am humbled. I am broke.”

“I gave myself away by mirror and by smoke”

“Gospel man with feet of clay”

“I give myself away”

“I give myself away”



It was not the words that mattered

It was the form

The man was finding his way back into the form

The man was clinging to his song

Like a life raft

A raft of form

In a mind that was turning over and over again

A churning sea

The man was lost

His mind was gone

And he was reaching out to the form of this song

He knew he’d been practicing

He knew it could hold him



He prayed to his Father

He asked God to bring him back

He wanted to live

He had peered over the edge

He wanted to step away

He had lost his mind



And so it was that the man found himself, his guitar strapped over his shoulder, walking out into the cold christmas morning. He sang. He sang his song. He clung to the words. He clung to the form of it.



And so it was that the performance of a lifetime was given. He was aware of the presence of birds. He was aware of the tree Goddess, his sister with whom he had communed days before as the men were working just on the other side of those great evergreens. He sang. He felt the cold grass on his feet. He had not thought to put on any shoes. Or maybe the wisdom of the earth had made him unaware of that need so that his bare feet could touch the earth that day. His feet grew colder as he sang.



And so it went



He vamped on the chords and he sang out to God. He praised. He gave thanks and he asked God to bring him back from the edge. He asked God to restore his sanity. 



It was the performance of a lifetime. A non-performance…as he sang for his life to a living God. As he acknowledged the birds in song, he saw Ebenezer Scrooge running across the yard. He’d just woke up too! Ol’ scrooge made his way downtown to give his thanks.



He moved through the evergreen canopy. Hard blue seeds dotted the packed path.

He arrived in the meadow where he’d seen the faeries dancing just 2 days before. He wasn’t thinking about much of that, though. No. He was just singing for his life. Wondering if he could emerge from this with sanity.



As he arrived at the clearing He sang:



“if the ambulance is going to come

Let them come for a singing man”



“If the ambulance is coming

Theyre comin’ for a singin’ man”



It was the best song that he’d ever sung. The most fun song. The funniest song of determination that he’d ever composed. The songwriter was accepting of his fate, but if it was all over then he was ready to go out singing!



“I give myself away”

“I give myself away,” he sang over and over again.



The sun was just rising between the tallest eversgreens. He could feel its warmth. He praised the sun for its warmth.



Over and over again. The vamp continued. Two chords back and forth. Abolutely no thought at all needed in the strumming. In the playing. He had been practicing for this moment all of his life. The moment when he would sing his self back home. He sang, waiting for the medicine to work it’s way through. He had taken a lethal dose. He had lost his mind. 



Then he saw that there was a chance that he could live.



He turned and faced the evergreens to the West. He sang to them. He praised them for their wisdom. “I want to know who you are,” sang the man. “I need to know you. Please show me how to be with you. I love you. How do you live? How do you live such rooted lives? I praise the soil from which you arose! Please sisters, show me how to rise up from the earth. Show me how to live.”



And so he sang to the trees in this manner

And so he sang to the birds

And so he sang to the sky



The non-performance of a lifetime



And so he sang to the ONE 

And so he sang to the Father

And so he sang to the Mother

His sisters

And his brothers

In this world



And his feet were no longer cold

They were numb

Comfortably numb

Beautifully numb and one with the earth



And so it happened that he saw the grass

He saw again for the first time how beautiful the golden grass could be in the winter if it hadn’t been subjected to a final cut

He saw how the grass had grown tall in places

And he saw it holding form



This was the field…again

This was the field that he’d sold everything for

This was the field that, as a young man, he’d sold all he had 

Once again, he saw his field

And he knew the treasure that was hidden in his field



And so it came to pass that the man’s mind was being restored.

But it was not restored yet



The feeling in his feet came back

His feet were very cold now



He was finally able to recall the last verse

Or, perhaps, the last verse was restored to him



And so he sang:



God is hot and God is cold

I felt his angel 

Give me meek

And give me bold

Naked is the way I came

That’s how I give myself away

I give myself away



The man completed the circle around the property. He longed for the warmth of the great adobe home now. 



He opened the back door, walked over the threshold, and closed the door, just as the fathers who invented the door had planned. “Oh, lets make a barrier that we can open and shut at will, choosing as to when we allow things in and out,” thought the fathers who had created the door. Praise be to the fathers who created the doors that keep out the wild beasts and the wind!



And so it went that the man placed his guitar on the kitchen table and began to engage himself with the things of the kitchen. He continued to sing. His mind was still in the process of coming back to him.



He sang



If the ambulance is coming

She’s comin’ to a home 

Where the dishwaher

Is runnin’



And so it was that he rinsed all the silverware and plates and placed them in the diswasher. He cleaned the skillets, giving praise to God for another dirty dish. “Thank you father for this dirty skillet. Thank you for this pie pan!”



And so it was that he washed and dried a wooden handled spatula, which his mother had instructed him should never go through the dishwasher.



So it was that he saved a wooden handled spatula from that terrible fate on that day. And he washed the spatula by hand. And he dried it profusely as he sang:



If the ambulance is comin’

Theyr’e comin’ to a home 

Where this spatula is right here in its proper place



And so the spatuala was placed exactly where it needed to be in case of the ambulance’s arrival.



And so it went that the man cleaned the kitchen enthusiastically, but not perfectly by any means. It was far far from a perfect cleaning. Very very far from a perfect cleaning, but the cleaning that was done was done with his whole heart, every remaining morsel of food on the dishes acknowledged. He threw plastic cups away that should have been reused. That was okay. Perfection was not necessary. He was here, in the kitchen, participating in this form. He was not ready to die. He had not been able to let himself die. He needed a guide to die that death. He needed a shaman. He needed community to help him make that journey into the dull green light. He had gone as far as he could by himself. He would need help to go that deep again.



And so it came to pass that the man, having come from the fields singing, cleaned his kitchen…Cleaned Dan’s kitchen…the kitchen in which the writer so graciously wrote. He faced into the large mirror, the medicine still present with the writer. He started writing.



So it came to pass that the author died that day

Or he learned that he was not ready to die

he had some kind of lesson in death

A lesson in what it was to lose one’s mind



A lesson in what it was like to come back to form

After being folded over and over again

In the vast evolving consciousness.



He remembered Kyle Seitsinger

And the boys…the men who died over there

Wherever “over there” was



He acknowledged his own pain

He acknowledged the tenderness of this process

and the gift that he was experiencing in the working out 

Of all this



He brought his hands together,

Placed the back side of his thumbs to his forehead

and bowed his head toward his chest

The dying author

Bringing life to His audience



Praise be to God!

The great What IS

The great I AM

The ONE who restores our minds

Our bodies

Our souls



To wholeness



Amen

Selah





