Day 6

7:56 AM



The tenderness presents itself…today…now

The unknown…

The pain of youth…



The musician now stood in the living room playing a conga drum. It was a dark red conga, one of a pair that ex-wife (mother of his children) had given him for Christmas. The drum now resided in the living room of the impressive adobe house. The man stood on the pink-orange mexican tiles playing the conga drum. There was a shaman residing in the living room as well. A native American Eagle priest lived in the recess of the wall. 



As the musician played the drum, he began to vocalize. He beat the drum faster and faster, and harder and harder. And as his rhythm and intensity increased, so did the volume and emotional content of his vocalizations. In the musicians heart was anguish--Visions of the pain of his youth. Remembrances of when all of this--the feminine arising from within-- would have been unacceptable. The drummer’s beat and vocalizations came to a climax, leaving him in tears, in uncertainty, and grief (is that what it was?). But, wherever this wave was taking him, he felt that he was preparing for the journey. He suspected that he had been suffering all of his life because of his inability to accept what was now rising up from within.





The wildy-talented-writer had stayed up until 4AM the night before, editing the first chapters of his project. He was starting to see a through-line. The distress call, the feminine offering her help in the struggle? 



“Is that the through line?” wondered the writer. “It is about the feminine, yes? But not just the feminine, right? The writer gives way to the possibility that this is not going to turn him into his father’s nightmare.”



“Hmmmmm. That’s interesting,” the Great mother gently responded with genuine curiosity. “Which father’s voice was that that just spoke? Is it okay if I help you out, right now? I have heard you asking for my help. I have heard you praying for my insight.”



“Yes, Great Mother, I would love to hear from you. Please shine your light on my being. Speak to me in a way that my heart understands, Mother.”



“I am shining my light on you now, my son. You will come into this wisdom. We will stay connected. We are connected. We are One, you and I son.”



And with that, the author did feel his heart filled with a gentle kindness, which felt very different in the man’s chest than the mind-fuck that he was in before. The voice in which the (angry) scared father arises.



“That’s good, said the Great Mother, you were willing to see him as scared instead of angry. And you prayed for your father tonight in song, didn’t you, my Son?”



“Yes, mother. I had a genuine song of healing for the man. It was truly a miracle.”



The writer paused. He breathed. He nodded to the vipassana, allowing himself the space to trust his body, to hear the voice of God in his breath. Praise be to Y-w-h, the unspeakable name of the ONE. Praise be to the I AM, which we ARE.



The disappearing author recalled a recurring dream that he’d had when he was in his early twenties. A dream in which he woke up, crawled out of bed, went to the mirror to brush his teeth. When he saw his reflection in the mirror he was terrified. “A green lizard,” is what the young man called what he’d seen. A sleestak, from the Land of the Lost television show of his childhood. The young man had the dream twice. And It was powerful medicine in his heart, bitter medicine, and much needed medicine, for the young man was unable to make peace in his own heart with the green monster. 



The wildly talented writer sat in the living room writing.



[“Why does he keep bringing up the ‘wildlytalented writer’ thing?”said the writer.] 



["Is it to show his ego working with some big expectation of himself?” said the middle-aged-man.] 



The writer stayed with his work. He felt a story coming on again. It was a story that he’d told many times before. He was unsure now of how to tell it again. Or even why he should tell it again. “I will try telling the story in its simplest form,” he thought to himself, “That would be a different way to approach it. 



“You could allow me to help, if you’d like,” offered the mother.



“Oh yes, Mother! Thank you so much for interjecting here,” said the writer. “I would very much like your help.”



And so it came to pass the simplest version of his story was told:



There was a traumatized boy who grew into a traumatized young man. This young man’s suffering went back for generations. The young man was unable to make peace in his own heart. He was greatly troubled. G_d reached out to him through Jesus Christ and Spirit Filled Bible belt Christianity. He responded. He was miraculously reconciled to the natural goodness of his own being, his deepest Self. The young man began experiencing the world in novel ways. His heart soared. 



A young traumatized woman who was also experiencing the evolution of life in novel forms saw this young man. Her heart rejoiced in him. They went for coffee together, where she listened to the young man speak from the joy of his new salvation. The young man had never been listened to so deeply. 



The young man’s heart had recently been broken by another woman. He never wanted to feel that way again. He sensed that this new young woman would never leave him. And he was right. What he had sensed was this young woman’s deep fear of abandonment because of her trauma. It was true, her trauma would make it impossible for her to leave the man, no matter how miserable together they might become. So, the man got what he thought he needed, a woman who would never leave him.



“Hello, Mother?”



“Hello, Son.” 



“Would you read that last paragraph with me and show me what you think?”



After reading the last paragraph, the Mother had a question, “ So the young man did not want to hurt?”



“Yes, Mother. He did not want to hurt.”



“And the young man felt like he knew that she would never leave him?”



“Yes, Great Mother, the middle-aged-man distinctly remembers ‘knowing’ that she wouldn’t leave.”



“That is interesting,” she hummed. “Let me ask you this, Son? Do you feel like she should have left you? Do you feel somehow that you deserved to be left?”



“Yes, Great Mother, I did somehow feel that I was the lesser of the two of us. I watched myself screw up so many times. I watched my heart stray from her. I watched myself getting depressed and angry. I yelled at the kids. I hurt the dogs. I couldn’t seem to make myself happy. I kept falling in love with other women. It was really confusing. I so often felt that I didn’t love her—not all the time—but often. I even felt hate for her. I remember thinking that the only person I have hated as much as my dad, was my ex-wife.“



“I do remember times when things were good between us. I remember looking back on our history together and being grateful that we were still together. I truly felt and appreciated her strengths. I blessed those strengths in her as much as possible. She worked so hard to get herself through school. And I do believe she was doing the very best she could for her family. It was one of the most incredible things I’ve ever seen in my life. I could often admire her strength…So, Mother?”



“Yes, Son?”



“Mother, I noticed that when you asked me if I felt that I deserved to be left, I started making a list of those bad things that I did. And then I made a list of some of the good things that I did?”



“Yes, Son. That is what you did. Why do you suppose that you might have done that?



“Why do I do that, Mother?” Said the Son? Is it because I have a hard time experiencing the natural inner-goodness of my being? So I try to justify my value by my deeds?”



“Hmmm…I think I like the way that you said that, Son,” said the mother.



“Mother?”



“Yes, son?



“How can I live more fully in an understanding of this natural inner-goodness of my being? How can I stop justifying myself by my deeds? Will you please show me? Please show me mother? I need this for my health. I want to be present in this world in deeper ways. I want to stop spreading my trauma around to others. Mother? I need your help. I cannot do this for myself.”



And so it came to pass that the Mother answered the middle-aged-man’s prayer. She was in dialogue with her son. 



Thought the writer: I am so grateful. Mother is so kind. I like the way she asks me questions and allows her wisdom to rise up into me. As her love and wisdom rises up in me, I am able to answer the questions that she asks. She is very calm. She is very helpful. She is quiet in my heart. I am so happy to sing her praises. I can hear her in the wind outside my window now. Thank you, Mother, for this sweet interaction between myself and you.”



The writer now continued the most Universal story. He asked his mother to keep watch over his heart. 



“I am coming to trust our Great Mother,” thought the writer before continuing on.



The young man wanted a family. He believed it would make him whole. He did his best to trust God’s leading at every step in his pursuit of this wholeness.



He pursued the young woman. She had a vision. She believed that he could complete her (or at least that’s how she interpreted the vision that she’d had). The young couple quickly got married. They had three children. However, the couple found that they were unable to fit themselves into a traditional mold. They flipped their house over. The woman became the main bread winner. 



Sitting by a fountain one day, their youngest daughter in a stroller, they consciously switched their allegiance from the church to the University. They became feminists. They learned of the oppressive patriarchy and they hated it. They swung from the Christian right to the progressive left, which the man eventually found to be less progressive than he’d hoped for (once again leaving behind form).



The man entered his age of reason, exploring logic until he saw how silly logic could be (Thanks Opal, “logic is silly. That’s all it took for him to see. Three simple words and the spell was broken). The man floated there at the edge of his observable Universe, facing the void, the meaninglessness. Determined to rid himself of all ignorance and archaic superstition, he scraped out his insides with a cosmic melon baller. He became a militantly-minded atheist. He despised the weakness of those who needed religion. He could speak clearly about the dangers of religious fundamentalism. Instead of religion, this is what he taught his son. His heart emaciated.

His oldest daughter, he gave Jesus.
His son, he gave materialism.
His youngest daughter, he gave Pema.
to his wife, he gave it all, along with his shadow-woundings. God bless that woman.
He can only trust that the One will lead them all now.
 


The spiraling man began facing the nothingness of it all for hours at a time through meditation. He sat with the exact nothingness that everything was, accepting the absolute emptiness. He made peace with that perfectly (for brief periods). He stopped putting anything in his body that would harm him—drugs, alcohol, caffeine, sugar. He learned to love every job that he did want to do. In physical therapy, he loved his clients. At University, he loved his students and his colleagues. He failed them all. 



No matter how hard the man worked to be okay, he continued to breaking down at work. He was often miserable, no matter how hard he worked at accepting himself, no matter how much he resisted blaming other people and circumstances. He finally found himself hurting so deeply that he felt certain that he had to change his circumstances in an effort to save his very life. He went to a treatment center. He felt better. He met a woman there. She made him feel alive and full of hope. It was the best he’d ever felt {that's what he said}, and the sex was crazy exciting! He left his wife and his family to follow his heart. 



“Mother! Said the Son, “HELP! I feel like it’s really important for me to inform our dear reader that I had no exciting sex with another woman until AFTER I left the mother of my children.”



“Ahhhh…So, more justifications, huh?”



“How does one live with all these mistakes, Great Mother?”



“Mistakes? Is that what they are? Let me ask you, “How long did you want out of that marriage? In the deepest places in your heart, did you not long to be out of that marriage?”



“Yes, Great Mother, I did.”



“And that’s one way you tried to take care of yourself, isn’t it? It was the best way you knew to do it at the time, wasn’t it? Were you as honest and up front as you could be?”



“Yes, Mother, I really was.”



“So, Life presented to you an opportunity to fall in Love, and you took it, didn’t you, Son? If I remember correctly, you knew from the beginning that it was "YOU" who you were taking care of. You knew that your new lover might be a helper, a catalyst in your process. You recognized that possibility, and then you followed that wild heart of yours and you went for it. Son, you were behaving in a very human way.”



“Okay, Mother. Thank you.”



“Son?”



“Yes, Great Mother?”



“I give you permission to give yourself a break. I give you permission to release your critical mind. I give you permission to stop justifying yourself. I give you permission to commune with my Everlasting Light. My light never stops shining on you, Son. Never. Ever. Feel my love fill your heart space.”



“Yes. Thank you, Great Mother.”



“Let’s go on, I’m enjoying this time with you, said the Great Mother.”



The hungry middle-aged-man gave himself fully to his new lover. He made the deepest promises to her right away. He made so many promises that he became sick inside. She was all he had ever dreamed of--passionate, intelligent, thoughtful, and kind. But he became so sick because his trauma was still coming up. Getting exactly what he wanted and then becoming sick about it truly vexed the man. He became so disturbed that he had to send away the love of his life. On his knees, in the shower, he wept bitterly as he held her naked hips for the last time.

He bought her a plane ticket back home, sending her back into the heart of the Atlantic. 



He tied a noose. He hoisted the rig in the garage. After a risky suicide-meditation-catharsis, he recovered. He hated himself again. Recovered. Stumbled into self-loathing. Again, recovered. However, his suffering deepened every time. He recovered again. And then the rope began calling to him at night:



“Take me into the closet,” said the long rope, “Take me in the closet and tie me to the hangar rack. Put your neck into me. You’ll feel better for a bit afterward. We won’t really do it. We’ll just make ourselves think that we may do it again. I know how miserable you are. Don’t you want some relief. Just take me in the closet and scare yourself again. That’s what you need, another catharsis just like I gave you last time. You need a suicide-catharsis.”





After listening to the rope say these things for hours one night, he woke up, got dressed for work, started sobbing uncontrollably, and drove straight to the ER. He went to a psychiatric unit. He went to a second treatment center. He opened his heart to God in a deeper way than ever before through the twelve steps and the support of friends. Yet again, his engines began failing. He was looking for a place to set his craft down, an open field perhaps, or a river like Sully had done. He saw himself as the pilot of a plane that was going down.



He began clearly and calmly declaring his emergency to everyone who he felt like needed to kno---his mother, his AA sponsor, his boss, a few friends. But this time the man did not panic. He spotted the field. 



Pilot: “Pilot to tower. Pilot to tower. Over.”



Tower: “This is tower, go ahead, pilot.”



Pilot: “You know that emergency that I called earlier? Well, it’s worse now. My engines are only at 35 percent power. I’ve got to set her down... Over there. I see a field. Yes, that field looks familiar. I know that field. Tower! I have found a place to land this thing.”



The pilot was familiar with the field. Over twenty years ago the pilot had sold everything so that he could buy that field. It was the field in which, so many years ago, he had unearthed a great treasure. 



In his joy he had sold all that he had so that he could buy that field. Yes, the pilot recognized the field. There it was, the field with the treasure. He repeated the call on the radio: 



Pilot: “I repeat. I am setting her down in this field,” He spoke calmly and confidently this time. He followed all the procedures. He used all the training from every facility that he’d been to, and he landed his failing plane in the field. 



This time he knew that it was not his fault that the engines on his plane had failed. It was an old plane. It was ready to be retired. In fact, he knew that he was called to be more like the eagle-man--the statue of the native american that was in the living room at the adobe house. The shaman in ceremonial garb, eagle feathers on his arms, looking toward the sky. He was called to soar on the thermals, like an eagle.



And so it came to pass that the man’s story was told. 



“His story was told with less guilt and shame than ever before,” the Great Mother, chimed in proudly.”



The wildly talented writer thanked his Great Mother for her help. This was the most concise and guilt free telling of his story to date, and he looked forward to editing it later. He looked forward to seeing what had just happened here. 



“There are so many of us here now,” thought the middle aged man…



The wildly talented writer. The dying author. The artist. The musician. The poet. The risen Christ. The tree Goddess. The wild one of the South. The beloved muse of the West. The innocent sage from the East. The Great Mother of the North. The father. The lover. Kali Ma. Shiva. Shakti. The jihad man. The strong bear. The exceptionally disciplined man. The little boy who painted the blue snake, the one where his nose flips up and he goes all the way from the bottom to the top. The little girl who is shy to tell her daddy that she likes boys. The Wios--this mature son who walks the earth. The reasonable scientist. The teacher. Also, the fearful aspects of his being were here too, those parts that were still out there, trying to find their way home. 



He was sure that there were more. He was sure there were many more beings that he had not listed. Together, they sat there in Oneness. They were the "fullness" that his first church in the bible belt had prophesied twenty four years ago. He was their son. They claimed him. He also adopted them as fathers and mothers and brothers and sisters. 



They were his family, but he had to walk away because he knew that the form they had to offer was not big enough—that is often what sons do. And there was heartache. And their was pain. And there were broken promises. And it caused his trauma to surface. He broke all the promises, especially the ones to himself. And with all the promises to Self broken, he was unable to keep his promises to others. He stopped making promises, thank God.



Something else awaited the aging-man—his second half of life. He had crossed the threshold. He left the door open long enough one afternoon so that whatever else needed to come in had the time. He didn’t monitor the threshold. He just gave all life the time to come and go as it pleased. He made room for all those beings that may have been entered through the back door as he had embodied the tree Goddess in the back yard. 



He was saying “yes” every morning now as he woke up. He was presenting himself as the offering. He was in the process of creating. Today, he was fiercely devoted to being. He had arrived here in all honesty, eating mushrooms and LSD at his AA sponsors beautiful adobe home. He had followed the call to this location. He had dropped his nets to follow the risen Christ. He was gifted, and he was accepting that gift. He was prepared to share that gift with the world. It was his calling, and he was answering.

The middle-aged-man sent a text to his father, and so it goes {Thanks Kurt Vonnegut}.

middle-aged-man: I'd like to see you soon. I don't want anything from you. I just want to stand in your presence

Father: sounds good! Next time you are in OKC you are welcome to stop by…appreciate a heads up if you do…Probably be more sitting in my presence in liew of standing up…up to you I guess…haha

middle-aged-man: How far in advance do you need to know I'm coming? Respectfully

Father: are you in my driveway?

middle-aged-man: No. LOL. Really. LOL. Oh man. That's funny. I love it...

Dad: you can come by anytime…any day…as often as you like…no notice necessary…I'm thinking of replacing the couch in the back bedroom with a bed so you'll be comfortable…Come by anytime. No notice required…Pop ins welcome

middle-aged-man: Oh man. That's quite an invitation. I gratefully accept your invitation...

Dad: I want to make peace with you and your kids…And with your brother…No more pain…peace
 I am grateful as well…I feel restored talking to you today.

middle-aged-man: I'll be with the kids in OKC for Christmas. Let's get together and have a meal.

Dad: Sounds good. I'll take ya'll out to Louies at lake Hefner. 



“How’s that for believing in my own inner-goodness, Ma?”



“Oh, that’s great, Son, You are a lovely, lovely, lovely, boy.”



He was powerless to make this new life happen for himself. He was trusting that Life would be lived through him. He was able to stop a dog in his tracks. He was able to set a boundary with his brother. He was able to reach out to his suffering father in a text message. He got a positive response. As he’d experienced his deepest self-loathing, he had not blamed his children for his own suffering. He recalled the prayer he had prayed years and years ago.



I want to know the Christ

the power of his resurrection

The fellowship of sharing in his suffering

Becoming like him 

In his death

And so somehow

To accept

A resurrection from the dead



“How does one make peace with a Universe that is out to help you?” asked the middle-aged-man.



After taking the LSD on that warm day in December, his attention was drawn to a single ant. There did not appear to be any other insects, just this one wandering ant. The man watched him as he went back and forth, apparently directionless. The ant crossed valleys and plains on that back porch under the soft December sun. He eventually came to a door mat. He crawled up the side of the mat, fifteen times his height. On the lip of the mat, he encountered another ant. At this, the observer was delighted. They exchanged chemical signals and moved on. The ants split, going in opposite directions along the lip of the doormat. The observer no longer knew where to put his attention. But he was glad to know that this ant was not alone. He was glad to know that there was activity, that this one ant was not completely off course. There were other ants out there. As sparse and lonely as the terrain may be. There was a colony. There was a home. That ant was out there on some kind of mission, looking for food I suspect, looking for sustenance. A scout maybe, exploring the far regions.









Easter Song



I wept for the women 

Who’d lost me

As I waited in the One-ness

I had found



I forgave all those deities

Who’d crossed me

As I lead my body to the burial ground

Yeah, I laid my body in the ground



I sang all those songs

That I’d never sung before

I blessed the rich, 

Gave my heart the poor

The doves they chanted sacraments

As the grackles screamed for more

I sang all those songs that I’d never sung before



The words they disappeared peripherally

The language of the moment 

Is rooted deeply now

As I invited death to set me free

The wreckage of the past 

No sway

No how

The wreckage of the past no sway, no how.



The sunlight, she’s the answer to my prayers

My brother rides that light beam 

Through the sky

The power of Hiroshima

Lay in “mc” squared

But the desperation falls on you and I

The desperation falls on you and I



Resentment may lie toxic in the soil

For years before we know it’s even there

7 billion souls

Coming to a boil

And the walls are being built now everywhere

The walls are being built now everywhere



So won’t you find your love

Brothers and sisters

Make your pilgrimage to the deep recesses

Now

The time for drawing closer 

Is the time already here

The wreckage of the past 

No sway

No how

The wreckage of the past

No sway

No how

 

 

Day 6 

9:21 PM

Christmas Eve



The writer sat in the great living room on Christmas Eve. He was trying to write, but there was something coming up in him. He found he had not much to say. His family came into his heart, those memories of Christmas with the family that he’d walked away from nearly two years ago.



The man texted his ex-wife (the mother of his children) and all three of his kids:



Middle-aged-man: "I wish you all a Merry Christmas. I remember our first Christmas here in New Mexico in the little apartment at the new Mexico Children’s home. We were so thankful to God that we had a safe place to be and presents under the tree. I was so excited about Christmas morning that I think I woke up the kids myself to get the show going! I will always be grateful for all the times we had together. Merry Christmas, family. I love you."



He received no response.



The middle aged man sat in the tiled living room with his instruments. He was becoming acquainted with loneliness {Pema was proud, so was Jesus}. As the writer was attempting to write, a facebook notification appeared on the screen of his Chromebook. A friend had tagged him in a post. The lonely man clicked on the link. 



It was Ry Dalee, who posted "John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt, by Travis Erwin. That was awesome. Almost as awesome as a Dr. Dave song workshop." said, Ry.



The memory had come from a North Carolina retreat that the man had been blessed enough to attend twice (His way was paid for the second time and he’d been sent home with a rare guitar! Oh, the gifts that life had brought to this man!). The Wilcox Weekenders are a people who come together in Hendersonville, North Carolina every Spring to celebrate Love and Music with their host, David Wilcox, the beautiful man whose songs bring us all together.









This post reminded him of a joyful moment that he’d shared with his friends at Kanuga. The man was reminded of the connectedness that he’d experienced in that moment. Nonetheless, the middle aged man felt alone in his loneliness. 



The man, in his desire to be seen in that moment, made a post of his own on the closed group page:



“In the past two years I have stepped away from my marriage and my job and so much of the false-self. I've been to one psychiatric unit and two treatment centers, and today I am sheltered through the generosity of a friend. I am so grateful for all the love, all the support. I am so grateful for all of you, my friends. I had to step up to the edge to really experience you, to really see you, to really feel you. I take this moment to express how grateful I am for what I can see here from the edge. It is absolutely breathtaking. What a view...if you ever have the chance, I recommend it. The miracle is this, I am now holding the suffering and the joy simultaneously. It's not one or the other any more. It's BOTH AND. Much love to you!”



As he published his post, his phone rang. It was Dan. The man wept with gratefulness as he put the phone to his ear. He allowed his true state to be felt and heard in the presence of his trusted friend.



“Hey, Dan,” the man said, tears audible in his voice.



“Hey, bud, me and Christy wanted to invite you over for a Christmas Eve get-together.”



The man accepted the invitation. He gathered the left over sparkling cider and root beer from the lovely lunch that he’d had with his children earlier that day. He also grabbed a loaf of hard crusted bread. Dan, texted from the driveway, “I’m here.”



The man walked outside wearing his olive jacket and carrying his humble offerings. He was embraced in the loving arms of what-is that night. He was held by the Great Mother. He was supported in the fabric. He found himself in community. The man was loved, and the man had experienced that Love many, many ways. 



But "love never comes the same way twice," or so said F. Scott Fitzgerald. We find our love today in novel ways. Love comes to us unexpected. And if we are offended and disturbed by that which is unexpected then we may miss our love. Great Mother, open our hearts up for the novel expression of Love in our lives today.



The friends broke bread. The friends drank cold sweet drinks and warm tea. The woman of the house prepared a dip for the broken bread. The piano was played. The guitar was strummed. Voices were raised in song. Gifts were given—and there was even one for the middle-aged-man! 



The man did not stay too long. He did not stay too short. He stayed until he was ready to go, then Dan took him back home.



The man was watching the miracle of Christ child being born in his life. He was giving birth to the Christ daughter. He participated in the forms that presented themselves to him. He was saying “yes” to life. The man was coming to know himself as the very Life that he longed for. He was held. And, there was so much more holding to come, dear reader! So much more awakening to witness. So much more Universal being for us to discover together, dear reader. Come! Come! As Christmas morning awaits! 



Come! Come! Whoever you are. Wanderer, Worshipper, lover-of-leaving.

Rumi





