Day 15

5:59



The man slept. He came home from a meeting with an old friend at IHOP and he slept. He slept for seven hours that night, the longest that he’d slept in over two weeks.



“Past the point of no return,” were the words that were in his stomach, the words so tangible that they pushed out a bowel movement that morning.



And he wanted to see the cats that he and his father didn’t get to see together. The feral cat colony on lake Hefner. He wondered if they were still there, the cats that lived in the rocks on the bank of lake Hefner that his father told he and his children about at Louie’s.



The night before he sat at IHOP with his old friend, a friend who had listened to him very closely when he was younger, a friend who had followed him and his wife down to southern Oklahoma when they’d moved down there to farm and ranch for her father-in-law.



Past the point of no return 



Those were the words that were with him this morning



At IHOP with his old friend, the one who had followed him to southern Oklahoma, the one who had followed he and his wife. The man who had followed. The man who had rearranged his life, and convinced his own wife to follow them to southern Oklahoma. This is the one who the middle-aged-man sat with now at IHOP.



This man who he sat with now had once allowed the feminine in to come to the surface. When he was younger, he dressed like a woman and allowed the feminine to exist in his being, he had lingered with the tree Goddess, one might say. This is one thing that the middle-aged man knew about his friend.



Renita Borders…the man had an appointment with his new therapist today in New Mexico. There was a very significant part of him that wanted to go back to New Mexico and see this woman who listened to him. But today, as he woke up with these solid words that pushed out a bowel movement, he had come to feel quite certain that he needed to call and cancel that appointment with her, the beatiful dark skinned woman with the thick braided hair who listened to him speak his heart and mind. The man loved a good woman therapist who listened. The man loved a woman who listened. And this was exactly what his friend was doing for him as they sat at IHOP.



His friend had always listened very intently to the middle-aged-man. The middle-aged-man enjoyed being heard by men and women alike. At IHOP last night, he’d allowed something to express its Self from within him. As he spoke to his friend the Christ arose. He told his friend about the snake in the garden, the spiral dynamics, how Christ and his band of followers had made love to the earth, Yeshua’s conversation with Petra., the kundalini wound at the root and rising through the Chakras to light that crown above the head. He spoke of the tree Goddess that had emerged from within and the men who worked just through the trees as he quivered to orgasm in her form. He told him the story of the day in which he had continued thanking his father, even from his knees as the father towered over him, as the father attempted to revoke the blessing that can’t be revoked, as the father tried to humiliate his son,.



“Did you take my cell phone?” the father raged, “Is my cell phone in your pocket? Kathy! Get in here and help me find my cell phone before he leaves!” he yelled.



The son checked his pockets,“I don’t have your cell phone, Dad.”



“Do you know how you and your brother have disappointed me? Do you know what it’s like to have two sons who haven’t figured it out yet? You two are the reason for my misery.”



The son listened and continued to thank his father.



“I thank you for all the gifts that you have given me,” he said repeatedly



The son prayed for his father as he gathered his belongings. The son prayed for his father as his father spewed curses upon him.



“You say that sometimes you’re afraid of me?” said the father, “Well, I’m afraid of you too. How’s that? How do you like that. Yeah, I’m afraid that when you come over here your’e gonna murder me and Kathy. That’s right. How do you like that? I’m afraid of you.” Said the raging father.



“I love you, Dad, I’m grateful for all that you have ever given me.”



“Do you know how disappointing it is to have a son who can’t take care of his family? I hope this writing thing works out for you. I hope you start making some money real quick, because that’s what you need, isn’t it? You’re gonna need money, aren’t you? If you’re gonna support that family of yours, if you’re gonna give your wife the child support and support those kids in college. You’re gonna need money, right? I hope you start making some money real quick. Do you know how disappointing it is, having a son who goes on medical leave and can’t support his family?” 



The father was doing his best.



“And also,” said the father, “Thanks so much for spending so much time with me yesterday.”



The son had, in fact, not spent very much time with his father yesterday. He visited friends. He was sleepy when he came home to his father’s house. His father wanted him to watch “The Nutty Professor” with him, but as the son sat down in the living room, his eyes were closing, his body asking for quiet sleep. The son did not have the heart to watch Jerry Lewis be a nutty professor. The son excused himself to his father’s back room where he napped.



The son prayed silently as he gathered his things from the bedroom that his father had prepared for him with a comfortable inflatable mattress, the bedroom where the wooden lap desk sat on the leather couch, the lap desk that his father let him use while he was there. The son gave thanks in his heart as the father raged with accusation. The son gave thanks to his father. The son gave thanks for his father. The son did not defend himself. The son did not attack. The son said one thing to the father.



“You are the father who continues to blame his children for his own misery.”



And then the son continued to calmly packed his things, including the weighted blanket that his daughter had given him as a Christmas gift just five days, including the leather bound journal that his youngest daughter had given him, including the uniquely shaped and stained piece of wood that his son gave him, his son who was also concerned about how his father would make his way without someone to care for him as his ex-wife had.



Kathy helped her suffering husband find his cell phone. The middle-aged-man gave his best smile to Kathy and hugged her goodbye.



“Thank you for your hospitality,” he said to her before he turned to pick up his belongings. “Thank you.” 



The man’s heart was beating wildly in his chest as he made the two trips required to load up his car. The son remembered a similar incident ten years ago, when the father followed his son out into the driveway, taking the son’s head in his hands, and holding on tightly, not releasing him when it became obvious that the son wanted to be free from the grasp of his father’s hands. 



But the father did not follow the son into the driveway. And the son knew now that he was free from the father’s grasp. He opened the hatch-back of his little blue toyota as his heart beat strongly in his chest. “Everything is going to be okay,” he reminded those parts of his being that were terrified, “I’m gonna take good care of you,” the generative-nurturing-adult reminded those fearful and fragmented parts of his being. 



And so the man walked back through the threshold of his father’s house to retrieve the rest of his belongings that sat there by the front door that the father opened every morning so the little yellow Chihuahua could go outside to use the bathroom. And there sat the chair closest to the front door, the chair in which his father had rested so soundly the morning before, where the son was able to hear the father breathing so peacefully, and the sun rose with orange, and white, and midnight blue, as those white fireplace stones glowed bright.



The son picked up his things, turned and walked out of his fathers home as calmy as was possible for him on that particular day. He gave thanks as he placed one foot in front of the other on the curving sidewalk that led to the driveway where his little blue car waited, the hatchback extended toward the sky.



The son placed his items in the car. He closed the dirty hatchback, feeling with his fingers the dirt and grime that covered his car. He opened the front car door. He slid into his seat. He noticed the roll of quarters that his father had given him for the turnpike. “Thank you, Father,” said the son.



“Thank you, Father, that your blessing cannot be revoked. Thank you for the blessing that cannot be taken from me, the blessing that is me. Thank you for the well of being that flows from deep within me. Thank you for all the gifts that man has given me. I pray as Christ did on the cross, ‘Father, forgive him, because he doesn’t know what he’s doing.’”



The man gave thanks in this way as he started his engine, shifted into reverse and backed out of the unusually shaped driveway, being careful not to strike the mailbox or run off the curb. The man continued to give thanks in this way as he called his mother to see if he could stay with her again. The man gave thanks in this way as he used the quarters that his father had given him for the turnpike. The man gave thanks with a pure heart. He prayed for the wholeness of his father. He prayed for his father’s restoration. He prayed that the generational curses that rest upon his father’s heart would be removed. He gave thanks for the gift that his father had given him that day. He gave thanks for his father exactly the way he was. And this was the miracle that came to pass that day.



This is the story that the middle-aged-man told to his friend that evening as they sat together at IHOP.



The writer, the one who now sat cross-legged on his mother’s, weighted blanket in his lap, fingers busily typing on his laptop, was watching as the time approached 7:30AM. He watched as he moved past one point of no return. He needed to leave now if he was to keep his appointment with Renita Borders, the lovely therapist that he would enjoy sitting with and talking to if he were to return today. 



But the traveller sensed a different option was being presented to him today, a non-path that was neither staying nor going. He sat at the crossroads. He acknowledged the passing from 7:30 to 7:31. He breathed in for a moment. He felt that he had other friends he needed to see here. He wondered what would happen if he kept going past the point of no return. 



January 6th, that was the date that he was scheduled to visit the Dr again so that he could remain on medical leave. He realized that he had those papers with him still, the paperwork that his employer needed in order that he remain on medical leave. Details.



The middle-aged-man sat with his friend at IHOP. He told him about the Cosmic Christ. He told him about his friend, the snake. He told him about the feminine rising from within. He told him about the miracle that had occurred at his father’s house that morning. The middle aged man continued to talk to his friend. And then the talking became much more than that. He felt his friend’s Presence, or rather, the man was present with his friend. The two men sat facing each other in the booth at IHOP making some kind of love without ever touching one another. The middle-aged-man was unable to maintain eye contact for fear of what he might see, in fear of what he might feel. The middle-aged man acknowledged all of this in the presence of his friend.



“Yes,” said his friend, “It appears that we are making love.”



The middle-aged-man allowed that love to be made. The middle-aged-man accepted that which had been unacceptable to his father. He allowed the love to be made in and through his being that night as he sat with his friend at IHOP. He allowed the love to flow between himself and his friend, as he had told him about the 50 shades of pray that he’d expereinced in the shower as he made love to his Lord. He confessed his desire to be penetrated. He talked about how the last woman he’d been with had submitted herself to him and how much he had enjoyed this woman who allowed him to be a man. He talked about how he felt, how he saw, who he was in the secretest of places, and it felt so absolutely free and good to the man.



“The last time another human being listened to me like this, I married her” said the man to his friend who sat across the booth. And then the man continued to talk even though it seemed that he should go home now. The friend lingered. The man lingered. They allowed all of this to come to pass, as they made love to one another that night, all while sitting in the booth at IHOP.



The man spoke to his friend of his marriage relationship. In the Presence of his friend, in this deep love that was being made, the man was able to describe to his friend, the only one who had ever followed him anywhere, the deep sufferings that he’d experienced in his marriage. He described what it was like to be married to a woman who could never want a man, a woman who hated kissing, a woman who did not want to be looked in the eye, a woman who did not want to be breathed on, a woman who did not ever want to take it all, a woman who could not allow herself, even for the briefest moment, to submit to the strength of a man. A woman who protected herself at every turn. A woman who was trapped in survival mode. A woman who spoke in absolutes. A woman who threatened her husband with divorce. A woman who was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder but was unwilling to really look at how that might affect her loved ones. A woman who gaslighted her husband, who needed to be enmeshed with a husband who was sick. A woman who called names when things got tough. A woman who was deeply contracted. A woman who could not apologize. A woman who needed a man who would be a non-man. A woman who demanded obedience and justified herself in this by presenting her husband with options. A woman who sniffed and knew it all. A woman who demanded self-loathing while saying everything to try and help. A woman who wound himself around the man and begged him not to leave. A woman who, with one hand, motioned the man closer, and with the other hand pushed him away. A woman who he could not imagine would ever recognize the part that she played in his own misery. A woman who became ugly on the inside and out as her disease overtook her. A woman who did all these things in the most secret and subtle ways so that she always (yes, the man wants to use the word “always”) came out on top. The woman who wanted to be perfect. No. The woman who needed to be perfect. The woman who needed to be known. Yes, now the man wants to really let it out! The disgusting woman. The dreaded woman. That snake bitch cunt whore. That fucking Lesbian! The woman who deserved to have her head bashed in with a lamp. That disgustingly ugly whore of a bitch who would never let him be a fucking man. Goddamit! FUCK FUCK FUCK. The woman who would never give him what he wanted. That ugly bitch who held him back from all that he needed to be. CUNT CUNT CUNT bitch. I wish I cold fucking kill you. Fuck you! Fuck you! I hate you. I fucking hate you. I really fucking hate you. Why do you torture me like this you bith cunt. I wish I would have never married you. You are so fucking ugly. Do you know how fucking ugly you are? You look just like the father who touched your pussy. You deserve everything you ever got. You deserved to be fucked over. Look at you. How can you live with yourself. I wish you would fucking die. I hate you .I hate You . I hate you. Fucking bitch. I wish you would get fucking raped you little fuckin bitch. You are a non-humna little fucking contracted dwarf lesbian bitch. Why don’t you just fucking kill yourself? You know what? If it wasn’t for these kids I would have never stayed with you past year five. Do you hear me? Do you hear how much I hate you? I wish I could have left you years and years and years ago. Do you know how terrible it was to sleep next to you. Do you know how much I hated it. Do you know hos sick it made me to be your bitch. Do you have any fucking idea how much you fucking hurt me? You really don’t do you? You ignorant fucking bitch! You disgust me. I’d like to fucking slap you to the ground and have you beg me for your life, because that is what you did to me. You were fucking killing me with your subtle manipulations. You survival bitch. You were fucking killing me, do you know that? Goddammit! I fucking hate you. I want you to know how much I hate you. I want it to fucking kill you. I could grab your neck between my two hands and I could strangle you. I could watch you fucking struggle. I could fucking knock you around the room. You would be helpless to resist me after I got throug with you, and I would fuck you in the fucking ass, you bitch. I would demoralize you. I would take everything that you ever fucking took from me you fucking worthless whore. I would stuff the last twenty years of my life right up your fucking ass and when you begged me for mercy I would fuck you some more. I would humiliate you because that is what you deserve. You deserve to be fucking humiliated. You took from me. You are sick so fucking sick. I hate you. I wish I would have never fucking met you. I wish that the first time I saw you that I would have just fucking killed you and stuffed you in my pickup bed and taken you out to the country and buried you! Goddamit! You bitch fucking cunt fucking whore. AAAAHHHHH bitch whore cunt fuck kill you bitch fuck you hate hate grinding teeth grinding teeth hair falling out slimy bitch cunt.



These are the sacred words that streamed from the writer’s hands that morning as he reclined on the bed at his mother’s house. This is the pain that he lived in for many years. These are the sentiments that he contained so that no one would ever know how he felt. This is the shame that he turned upon himself. This was his illness. The disgust that he lived with in himself. This was far far more than the man shared with his friend that night. This was far far more than the man even realized was still latent in his being.



The man sat. the man waited. His mother’s husband showered in the adjacent room. He could hear the water splashing on the tile. He heard his mother’s husband vocalize, the vocalizations in the shower that hint at the ecstasy of the primate who finds a warm water waterfall. The water ran through the pipes. The water was heated in the heater. The spiggot was turned. The cold water worked its way through the pipes. The hot water emerged. The primal being experienced the ecstasy. Praise be to the pipes and the fluid brother who flows through them. Andy Dufresne, the fluid brother who worked his way through the pipes that morning to find his way onto the skin of the man who showers. Thank you, Andy for showin us the way.



The shower stopped. The writer covered his face and breathed in deeply.



God, I offer myself to you

Build with me. Do with me as you will.

Fuck me God. Fuck me.

I want you inside me.

I want to give myself to you

I need you to bend me over and fuck me like the man that you are

Put the tie around my neck and control me

Please please please

Please fuck me

I need it daddy

Daddy, please fuck me

I need it. I need you to sread my legs and fuck me

Really really hard

Oh Jesus when will you fuck me?

Relieve me of the bondage of self

That I may better do your will

Take away my difficulties 



The father who wanted to put a bullet in my head

I am that father

I am the husband who wanted to fucking kill his wife

Oh God fuck me

Come inside me

Fill me with your come

I need your come

I want to taste it

Let me suck your dick

I need to taste your come

Please please please oh god

Oh fuck I want to moan you all the way in

Why can’t I be a woman so I can spread my legs like that

And just take everything a man has to offer

Why can’t I give myself away like that

Why can’t I just be owned

By a man who will protect me with violence?

Why can’t I?



Who will hold me?

How will you hold me when the pain comes like this

She looked me in the eyes and betrayed me with a kiss

She said, “you cannot walk on water, with a tongue sharp to kill”

But, in the eye of the hurricane

You are always still





It was now 8:46, well past the point of no return. The man would not meet with Renita Borders today. The man met with his friend last night. And apparently he was involved in some kind of therapeutic process. The man found his cell phone and called Renita, leaving a message with her assistant to let her know that he would not be there that day. 



The man sat. He heard cars passing on the distant turnpike, the turnpike that his father provided the quarters to travel.





Day 15

8:58 AM



The writer recalled how he’d realized that he was a Hindu, and how he had eventually come to call upon Kali Ma that day on the mountain after he followed the small stream up to the large boulders which rested among the thick and sprouting green beings of the soil:



As the man continued his awakening process over the years he gained many tools. He read many books and integrated the life experience of the “other” into his own practice. After Penny had shared with him that he was “one of the top five self-bludgeoners” that she’d ever met, the man tried to discover for himself the love that he so desperately needed. Penny gave him a book: The Pocket Pema Chodron. He read a book by Thich Nhat Hanh called The Art of Power. From these two great teachers he came to experience the power of silence. He began to observe on a deeper level what was actually going on in his mind and in his body. He also rediscovered a medicine in his beloved marijuana plant.



The man found this song upon his lips:



“There’s a beautiful green leaf that grows upon the earth. 

It helps us to sing and encourages mirth

But the man says no and there’s a reason why

He doesn’t want us to see what we can see when we are high”



The herb connected him with himself. He was able to experience joy, once again, in a world that seemed to be crushing him. In a marriage where he often times felt guilty for being himself, the marijuana came to him and offered him peace and love and joy within himself. It also gave him ample opportunity to face his fears. The chronology of all of this was impossible for the writer to untangle as he sat at his mother’s home writing on the Thursday morning, the second day of the year two-thousand-and-twenty. But he saw the healing process that had happened in his heart.



There was Thich Nhat Hanh first. The vietnamese monk who had watched so many of his friends and family die in the war that ravaged his country. The man who had been exiled from his country. The man who taught his readers to breathe. The man who described the beauty and the simplicity and the freedom that may be experienced in the breathing-in and the breathing-out. It was in this book that was given to his wife by a great icelandic princess that the man discovered that he was breathing and that it mattered. The awakening that happened in the heart of the buddha showed the way to the breath and the universal consciousness that we may all experience as we turn our attention toward that simplest of all human experience which we all have in common. The breath, that form which none of us will abandon until our body finally stops breathing. 



It was Thich Nhat Hanh who first helped the man to see this. And then there was Pema in this little book that Penny gave him. Pema was simple and digestable. She kept bringing him back to the here and the now. She kept urging the awakening man to go to the places that scared him. She invite him to let things be when he thought they needed to change to his liking. She invited him to accept his birthright, the gift of this moment, that which is beyond the resolution that we all think will finally satisfy us. She invited him to sit with his loneliness. She dared him to discover himself and to accept himself and his attitudes and his thoughts for exactly what they were. She gave him permission to just allow himself to be. She gave him permission to stop trying to fix himself. She asked him to speak to his fear with respect. She wondered what would happen if he just stuck his head right in that demons mouth instead of trying to cast him out. She invited him to go deeper when the world was telling him to go higher. She asked him to sit as fear was screaming in his face, trying to tell him what he had to do. She told a simple story of the Tigers and the Strawberries which went something like this:



There was a young woman who was travelling through the forest when she discovered that she was being pursued by tigers. She ran as fast as she could to escape the terrifying creatures who chased her. As she ran she came to a cliff. She climbed down a vine which was growing down the cliff-face. As she climbed down the vine she looked down. Below her she saw yet another group of growling tigers. “Oh my,” said the young woman to herself, “there are tigers above me and below me. What will I do now?” It was in that moment that she noticed some mice above her. These mice were gnawing through the vine which held her there suspended above and below the hungry tigers. It was in this moment that she saw something else. It was a little strawberry plant with a single little berry growing from its green body. So, the woman simply reached out, and she ate that strawberry.



Yes. That is the end of that story. The story with the non-ending. The story without resolution. The story with a happy ending. The story with a tragic ending. The story of the woman who reaches out and plucks the strawberry from the vine. Praise be to the tigers and the strawberries and the mice who gnaw on the vine. Praise be to the one who eats the strawberry.



It was in this way that the man began his meditative practice. It was in this way that the man found himself eating every strawberry that he found as he dangled above and below the tigers that chased him through life. It was in this way that the man found a new teacher and he dedicated himself to her teachings. He carried his Pema around with him in the right side-pocket of his cargo pants. It was in this way that the man continued to make a deeper peace with himself and the world in which he lived. Praise be to the Pema who asks for no such praise, the one who did not hold herself accountable to any deity.



And so it was inscribed on the inside cover of the pocket Pema:



“To Travis,

Be the one you dream you can be.

Penny”



And it was in this way that Pema and Penny became the same being to him. It was in this way that the man also gave himself to the teachings of Penny who always gave him unconditional positive regard (Praise be to the one who was called Carl Rogers!).



The doorbell rang at his mother’s house. The man wondered if it was his father who had finally come to put that bullet in his head. He heard no violence as his mothe’s husband answered the door. He heard no gunshots. He chose, once again, the strawberry that was before him.



The man was never fully faithful to the Vipassana practice given to him. He phased in and out. This man was never faithful at anything, even the things that he claimed to love the most, like his music or his family. But, the man did continue.



It was in this way that the man found himself on occasion sharing this joy with the world. He and two friends started a meditation group. They read together. They sat together. They talked together. They read again.They sat again. They talked again. And that was their form. That was the form that they held together. Together, they gently practiced and learned from one another. They learned to listen. They learned to give space for what was said instead of trying to fix things or give advice. They gave each other the gift on one another’s presence. It was in this way that they practiced on-again and off-again for four years, sometimes drinking tea, sometimes just meeting for breakfast, sometimes reading TNH, sometimes reading Joseph Campbell.



And so it came to pass that the son, one day shared with his father the joy of the salvation that he had experienced in this practice. And this is how it happened that the father mocked the son and called him a Hindu as if it was a dirty word. And this is how the son hung up the phone with his father that day with a hurting heart because of the father that mocked him. And this is how the son continued his practice on-again and off-again not understanding why the man’s father would ever think he was a Hindu, and not at all thinking he was a Hindu and not even really very aware at all of the historical connection between Buddhism and Hinduism. Pema certainly never mentioned any Hindu Gods or Godesses, she herself describing her worldview as non-theist (not anti-theist because there was no position against anything that would bring true peace into being).



And then it came to pass that months later the man found himself talking to an old friend in front of the Wal-Mart with whom he was sharing his most recent spiritual awakening (for there had certainly been many in his precious and sacred lifetime). The old friend was very glad that the man was doing well and she shared with him how she had been concerned about his well being for quite some time.

“I heard that you had become a Hindu,” she whispered to the man as they stood there beside the sliding doors in front of the Wal-Mart.



“That’s strange,” thought the man, who honestly recoiled at the idea himself. “I do not understand why people think that I am a Hindu.”



And so it came to pass that the younger man went home where he brought his groceries in from the little blue Toyota, unpacked them, and made himself a nice lunch of lentil soup and strawberry shortcake with coconut milk for lunch. A meal that fit his current vegan diet (a diet that he made no vows to continue forever, but one which he currently embraced with a joyful and appropriate zeal).



It was in this way that he found himself doing a google search for “Hinduism,” after which he found himself reading Wikipedia which helped him to understand this: The name Hindu was not a name that was adopted by any one people or religious group. It was actually a description that foreigners assigned to the people who generally lived by the Indus River, “Indus” meaning a great body of water, in this case a great flowing body of water. 



It was in this simple way that the man munching on lentil stew, at that moment, as he sat in front of the computer in the great adobe house, came to understand that he how he truly was a Hindu. He was one of a Universal people who draw their Life from the Great River. 



And it was in this way that the man became curious about Hinduism (however broad that spectrum may be). It was in this way that he came to ask Shiva, the divine feminine to arise from within him, to uncoil the great serpent that he had felt quivering at the root of his being. It was in this way that he called for a marriage of the divine masculine, who was Shiva, to marry the divine feminine, Shakti in his being. It was in this way that he continued to see the diving in all that is. It is in this way that he came to see the Christ in the Hindu gods and goddesses. It is in this way that he met Kali Ma and asked her to come and couple with him. It is in this way that he was aroused by the possibility of backpacking by himself up to a mountain lake which was fed by a stream which he would follow as far as he could, at which point he would stomp the ground and summon the great Kali Ma to come and destroy him. It was in this way that he would eventually (ironically?) rediscover this prayer. 



I want to know the Christ

The power of his resurrection

The fellowship of sharing in his suffering

Becoming like him in his death

And so somehow to receive

A resurrection from the dead



It was in this way also that the man, earlier in the year, in April as Easter approached, began to invite death to come and take that which death had a rightuful claim to. It was in this spirit that the man wrote thes words:



I wept for the women who’d lost me

As I waited in the oneness I had found

I forgave all those deities who’d crossed me

As I lead my body to the burial ground

As I laid my body in the ground



And this is how the man came to recognize himself as the Universal, the Hindu, one who lives by a great flowing body of water from which he draws true life.



Praise be to Shiva and Shakti who unite within us, making us whole. Praise be to Kali Ma who lops off our heads and our ego. Praise be to the serpent who is coiled and quivering, ready to open an travel up to the crown. Praise to the She. Praise to the He. Praise be to the Christ whose arms open to receive us all.



Praise be to the Great River, that which nourished us all. The Universal River! Praise be to the Hindus who live on its shores and are baptized in its waters.



Amen

Selah





Day 15

11:15AM



The writer checked his emotions, then he checked his motivations, meaning that he allowed Presence to greet them both. He allowed his innate presence, that essence of his being to welcome all those parts of his being. 



He faced South into beveled edge of the mirror that showed a repeating image of the lover par of his face, that wild and bearded aspect of his being. His brother, in a recent text exchange between the two had expressed how much he wished he could grow a beard like his older brother. And there certainly were interactions between his beard and the world which encouraged him to allow its continued growth. But it was the man’s relationship with his own beard that was the most important to him.



The beard had been given permission to expand into its current state of large-ness over a year ago as the man left the psychiatric unit in Roswell and enrolled himself in the treatment center in Rio, Racho. The middle-aged-man called it his homeless-beard, and he freely spoke of its significance whenever the chance presented itself.



“This is my homeless-beard,” the man found himself professing, “I am considering buying a one-way-ticket to the big island of Hawaii. If I’m going to be homeless I don’t want to be cold.” These words drew a mixed response of fear, confusion, and smiles from his listeners as he spoke them in varying degrees of detail and length.



After his recent hitchhike to Amarillo, the man did not think that he was ready to become willingly homeless just yet. If that was the path, the Spirit would need to do some more work in him. He did not enjoy the experience of not knowing where he would sleep safely that night---the first time he’d ever known such a thing. He let the door close quickly once as he investigated an abandoned office complex where it appeared someone had already taken up residence. It was not in his plans to go back there.



Hitchiking that day, sitting on the side of the road, waiting for a ride that would never be offered, his hands getting colder and colder gave him just enough understanding of whatever that was to know that he was not ready to go there willingly. Yet today, he was willing to stay at his mother’s house, passing a waypoint on the non-path to the -point-of-no-return, and what that point was he was not quite clear on. It was in this way that he found himself facing South, his face split in the beveled edge of a large mirror (though not near as large as the one in the kitchen of the adobe house).



In his book Wild Mind, Bill Plotkin identified the South as the Wild Indigenous One. “Is this the beard of the Wild Indigenous One that I am seeing in the mirror this morning?” wondered the dying author. He had read a book once by Robert Bly, called Iron John. He remembered the hairy wild man as being a main impetus of the message in that book. The writer was coming to accept that this South-facing position was no coincidence, but rather a deeper wisdom that had brought him into this relationship with the wildness of his beard. He pulled up the shades on the West facing window, acknowledging his Beloved Muse (Plotkin). 



His beloved muse, that one who dives into the mystery of the she-serpent within, who is curious about the upside-down cross, The one who wants to document the process of moving past the point-of-no-return. The one who calls upon Kali Ma. The one who revels in the experience and the danger and the fear of walking away from the God-of-culture, attempting to integrate the most ancient of non-religions, shamanism. 



The man was now beginning to acknowledge all four of the cardinal directions. In the mirror he could see the North wall of the bedroom in which he stood. The North, where the generous and caring mature adult watched over, inquiring about the man’s personal well being, while also concerned for the well-being of his family, the world, and the health of the planet.



The East, where his innocent sage lived and breathed deeply. This is the direction from which his teacher, Thich Nhat Hanh had arrived in him. The innocent/sage. The one who is child-like sometimes in naivete, yet also carries the wisdom of the ages in the manifestation of this innocence. Also, the East is where the trickster comes from, this one whom he saw so strongly in his daughter, this one who is ready to let go of the serious nature of life and become playful in whatever format is available. The trickster who could easily find herself transmuted into the sacred fool, that one who intentionally steps into trouble in order to stir the metaphorical pot, allowing the dross to rise to the top and the Truth to condense.



According to our friend, Bill, we each have one Cardinal direction that is innately our strong-suit. And it is the direction directly behind us as we embody our great strength that is the weakest. As the writer took his lesson from the wisdom-voice which seemed to be writing this book, it appeared that his primary direction was the North. It appeared that it was this nurturing adult who had brought him this far in his journey. It was his nurturing adult who was introducing him to these other aspects of his being. It was the generative nurturing adult who was bringing all of them together and caring for these fragmented aspects of the man’s being. It was the nurturing adult who had showed up yesterday at his father’s house as he raged against his son, trying to bring him into submission with insults. “Yes,” thought the man, “Praise be to the nurturing adult that lives in me, this one who cares for me, this one who cares for the world.”

However, today the writer faced South into the mirror with the beveled edge that split the bottom half of his face in two. He faced his wild-man beard, the beard that even his wild-man brother was jealous of. The writer sensed an opportunity to nurture this wild-man of the South. He would rely on the North to help him to develop his South, for it was from the North that his natural strength flowed. 



Was it the Wild-Inidigeous one who searched for shelter in Amarillo? Was it the Wid-Indigenous one who perceived the life process as a hunter-gatherer? Was it his southern nature that found the nuts and berries and followed the herd. Was it his wild indigenous nature who was the fisher-of-men and fish alike? Was it this nature that desperately needed to find some expression in order for the man to live in a healthy way? Was it for the reviving of this nature that the man had come to this place in his life? Was it that southern nature that the man had gone to the forest to recover, or possibly discover? Was it this wild nature that brought him to his father’s house, to face the wild-man of his youth himself? Was it his wild nature that caused him to move toward what scared him?



The writer remembered his practice at the adobe house in the college-cow-town, when he stood at the counter facing North, with the pillows behind him at the sink, in dialogue with this being. He wondered if he could do the same here, in his mother’s house facing South. He got the pillows off the bed and placed them on the floor behind him. He sat. He brought his hands together and placed his thumbs on his forehead. He bowed toward his heart. In silence. In prayer.



He bowed. He prayed. He acknowledged the South-One. As he moved into a pose that he thought felt wild and indegenous, knees bent, feet forward, forearms resting on his knees, spine straight and ready—a position of restful readiness, he became aware. He became aware of the bedroom furniture. He became aware that his books and his laptop were resting on the same bedroom furniture that had inhabited his parent’s room when he was a child.



The tall dresser in the East wall was where his father kept a growing stack of playboy magazines. The magazines that the middle-aged-man, when he was teen-ager, used to masturbate and presumably the same magazines that his father also used to masturbate, a strange bond that the writer had not, until now, been aware of. He had never imagined that his father used the same magazines to pull his own off.



The writers’ step-father (by which name he had never referred to him before) poked his head in and gave him a key to the house. He was running out to do some errands. “Make sure you don’t run off with that key, now,” He said. The step-son did his best to not read anything in to that imperative. 



The writer recalled how he used to have his favorite magazines, and the joy that he felt when a new magazine magically appeared in his father’s dresser. The writer walked over to the cabinet, opening the familiar door. There were three shelves inside. It was empty now. The writer checked several of the other drawers in the wooden cabinets. the drawers in the bedroom set were mostly empty.



It was on the top shelf where the magazines were kept. When the writer, in his young adult life, had become a born again Christian he questioned the presence of those magazines of his youth on a moral level. He understood the magazines to be wrong. He understood them to be of a sinful nature. He did not question how he had come to this conclusion. It just seemed to fit. And so the young Christian vowed to never touch the dirty magazines again that had lurked so darkly on the upper shelf of his father’s dresser. 



The writer stood waiting, facing South as he waited for the punch-line to all of this. This was a story that he’d told before. Did his southern nature have some more to add to this story? “What does the Wild-Indigenous one have to say?” the writer spoke out loud. He waited. He took a seat on the pillows behind him and he waited.



“What was sex like,” wondered the writer, “before a simile of sex could be experienced by looking at an image of a perfect specimen in the pages of a magazine? What was sex like before the act of intercourse could be viewed as quickly as it took to say, “hey google? Maybe this is about more than sex. What was life like before there were wooden drawers in which to store playboy magazines? What is life lik for the wild-indegenous one? What is life like for this being who exists in here who does not quite understand all of the progress that has been made and how ‘good’ it is for us all? What is life like for this being who has been forced to wake by the clock? What is life like for this being who is now required to be at the same location for forty hours a week and fifty-two days a year in order to survive? What does these kind of restrictions do to this being? What is it like for a being to wake up to his own sexuality with a picture of a woman in contrast to an actual woman? What is it like for this being who evolved to hunt and to gather to be confined in these ego-structures and finding his sex in magazines and on-line? 



Dear reader, I do not intend to romantacize hunter-gatherer culture. I know that we are not going back. I am just asking these questions in an effort to reach out to this wild-indigenous one as a generative-nurturing adult. The southern nature of my being is the one at my back, the weakest of my being. So, how does this work? Where do I find myself today?



“Father?”

“Yes, son?”

“What time is it? Where do I go from here?”



The writer felt his strength fading.

He had been writing since early that morning with only a short break to shower and eat.

But, he thought that he’d give something on more try.



When the writer was a young boy, his parents brought him to church. They all attended church for a short while. The young boy attended a class in which they taught him why he was to be baptized. All the boy could remember of the class later was the story of how melted gold from the golden calf was poured down the throats of the disobedient Israelites who had formed an idol while moses was away getting the ten commandments. The writer did not even know now how accurate that story was.



The young man sat with his family one Sunday morning at the church service. The wooden pews were cushioned by a plush velvet seat. Light streamed through the stained glass windows of the First Christian Church. The boy sat next to his father, listening to a sermon. Kyle Maxwell, the pastor/preacher told a story that the man still remembers.



The story is of a man whose house has been drowned in a flood. The man is sitting on his roof, waiting for God to rescue him. A large log floats by. “I don’t need that log,” says the man, “I’m waiting for the Lord to rescue me.” Then, a man in a row boat comes by. “Can I help you?” says the man in the row boat. “No, thank you,” says the man, “I’m waiting for the Lord to rescue me.” Finally a rescue helipcopter spots the man sitting on the roof. The pilot shines a bright light on the man and communicates with the man through a loudspeaker. “YOU. DOWN THERE!” says the helicopter pilot. “WE WILL LOWER DOWN A BASKET AND HAUL YOU UP!” “NO THANK YOU,” yells the man politely, “I’M WAITING ON THE LORD TO RESCUE ME.” The helicopter lowers the basket. The man refuses to get in. The helicopter raises the basket and flies away in order to rescue others.

The flood waters rise around the man. He is washed away and drowns.



When the man gets to heaven the man asks the Lord. Why didn’t you save me God? I was putting my trust in you. “Well son,” says the Lord, “I sent a log. I sent a row boat. And I sent a helicopter, and you didn’t accept my help in any of these things.”



I honestly, now do not know why I am telling this story. I’ve been writing for a long time and when I started writing, this story was in my mind. I thought that I would somehow come full circle. I hoped that somehow God would do a miracle here. Maybe I’m missing the log. 



I suppose that this is a story about how…I’m tired…I need to rest



Maybe this is not where the herd is headed. Maybe there are just no nuts or berries to find on this path. Maybe sometimes we have to walk for a ways down a path in order to finally turn back around. But here I am, participating in this form. Here I am. Praise to the directionless story. Praise to the fool who has no idea where he is going. Praisse to the wild-indigenous one who goes out searching. Praise to the Scout who looks for a new land. Praise be to the all. Praise be to the non-path.



Long pause…5 minutes or longer…



Dear reader, minutes have passed since I last wrote, thank you for bearing with me. Thank you for coming with me on this journey. As I was unable to see any connection in the thoughts I have shared wayou over the last several pages, I must admit that I began to despair. It is incredible how quickly a heart can fall into despair. It is incredible how quickly I, in particular, can fall into despair. 

whates

I will attempt to recount what happened here. I closed my laptop, as I said, despairing in the meaninglessness of what I had written. I went as far as wondering if I had chosen incorrecty in my choice to stay here in Oklahoma City this morning. And in the recounting of the story of the man and the flood, I felt very nearly crushed by this practical voice of wisdom which might come from someone more spiritually minded, but less abusive than my own father. I felt sick in my spirit. I began backtracking, just barely falling short of questioning God as to where I went wrong. I returned a text to my friend, kalei who was inviting me for steaks tomorrow night at his house, thinking, “Oh yeah, I definitely missed it! Look there’s the log floating by my submerged home. There’s the Lord trying to save me, trying to get me back home so that I can salvage whatever little bit may be left of my life. And it is possible that all of this is true! I can’t really say for sure. But here is what happened next.



I opened ACIM to lesson 13, which reads as follows: 



“A meaningless world engenders fear.” 



ACIM goes on to say, “Recognition of meaninglessness arouses intense anxiety in all the separated ones. It represents a situation in which God and the ego “challenge” each other as to whose meaning is to be written in the empty space that meaninglessness provides. The ego rushes in frantically to establish its own ideas there, fearful that the void may otherwise be used to demonstrate its own impotence and unreality. And on this alone it is correct.



ACIM continues, “It is essential, therfor, that you learn to recognize the meaningless, and accept it without fear. If you are fearful, it is certain that you will endow the world with attributes that it does not possess, and crowd it with images that do not exist. To the ego, illusions are safety devices, as they must also be to you who equate yourself with the ego.



The writer wondered, “Does the Wild-Indigenous one experience meaningless? What is meaningless to the Wild-Inidgenous one? Does the indigenous one pass up the help of a floating log because it has too little meaning?” 



“Who is this wild one? Who is this indigenous one?” the writer continued in his musings. “What does ‘meaning’ mean to this indigenous one? Is it the Wild-One that can carry us through when meaning ceases to be apparent? Is there one within us who is not demanding for anything to be meaningful? Is there One who just simply is? Is there One within us who does not interpret the lack of nuts or berries or the lack of game as the lack of meaning? Is there one who senses the emptiness (the void) and simply walks on, eyes and ears alert, accepting whatever may seem to be currently unavailable?”



The writer wondered about this woman who wrote ACIM. He thought about the rising of the feminine in this world. He thought about how the masculine nature served humanity in its early stages, but now it appears that the feminine nature is rising from within to wake us up. The she-snake that is unwinding within us, working its way up the crown chakra of humanity.



The writer wondered how the perfect images of naked female beings in the magazines had affected him. He recalled the phrase “objectfication of the female body,” that he’d come to understand as he came into some understanding, years ago, into what it meant to be a feminist. 



He cracked the window a bit to let some fresh air in. He thought he might have heard the voice of his new friend Sebastian, one of the two boys who had worked a miracle for him yesterday as he was struggling to recover from the interaction with his father. His mother said that everyone called him “Sebby.” The middle-aged-man like that name, Sebby. Praise be to the boys on power-scooters who drive up and down the street, bringing salvation to the world!







Day 15

2:43PM



Dear Reader, It is I, the one who narrates. I AM. The One who tells this story. The one who sees the Universal in our man here. It can be a challenge for everyone when I show up. It can be a challenge for others when the Universal appears in a being. It was a challeng for those in the Near East when it happened over there all those years ago. Maybe we can make some peace with that together. 



That which is written can never be complete. That which is spoken can never be removed from its speaker, and this is why the Annointed one didn’t write his own book. And why, you may ask were the gospels written so many years after the one they called Messiah walked the earth? The answer is in these words somewhere if you will search your own heart carefully. Are you ready? Here they are:



Some time needed to elapse between the happening and the telling. In human terms we are talking about anywhere from thirty-five to eighty years. That’s quite a bit of time between the happening and the telling, plenty of time for a lot of things to happen to those memories. Plenty of time the heart to get a hold of what had happened to do with it exactly what a human heart does.



Having been moved by these words, the writer opened to the book of Luke. He read of Zecaraiah and Elizabeth, and Mary and how the ange Gabriel announced the coming of John and the annointed one. The writer, having become sleepy laid down for a nap.



He awoke with vision of a large, grey cat upon a grey rock.



He departed to lake Hefner to visit the feral cat colony



4:39PM



The ten dollars in quarters which th middle-aged-mans’ father had shared with him to spend on the turnpike were now dwindling. The sun was setting in the Southwest as the man accelerated. The man’s prayer language which had arisen from within in his twenties had never fully abated. It had certainly been renewed over the last year and especially in the last to weeks, an reintegrated remnant of his penecostal roots. He allowed the syllables to come from his lips.



He had gathered a few items as he moved toward lake hefner at the speed of life, his laptop, his Rumi, his new New Testament with his name embossed in silver, his leather bound journal—a christmas gift from his youngest daughter, the uniquely shaped and stained piece of wood from his son which served to hold open the pages of a book was now bound to the leather journal. 



After he left his mother’s house, he turned back around to get his mandolin when a vision of it appeared in his mind’s eye. These days, when he backtracked, he asked that God would accept it as a prayer. It was a moment when he was saying “yes” to the speed of life, a moment where he was saying “yes” to the willingness to move forward, even if it meant taking a step backward. He checked between the two front seats to see if his elk skin gloves were there, not hat he would necessarily need them. The thermometer on his dash display vassilated between fifty-nine and sixty degrees. 



As he made his way South on Hefner parkway, he asked google maps for assistance in finding Louie’s. “In one-thousand feet, turn right onto East wharf drive,” said the artificially intelligent voice emanating from his Samsung. As he made his turn, he saw the sun reflecting off of the relatively smooth waters of lake Hefner, a contrast to the wind and white-caps of three days prior. 



He pulled into the parking lot at Louie’s, just as he’d done three days ago as he was brought his children to meet with his father. He recalled that he and his family were listening to the Brother Jack album as they rolled into the parking lot at Louie’s. Being the first to arrive, they sat in the small car listening together to the second track, an instrumental called medieval-un-fair. The middle-aged-man rejoiced in the musical excellence of his friend Matthew Hope, pointing out to his daughter and son-in-law the highlights of his friend’s work.



After the track was finished, the three of them went inside the restaurant to get a seat. They were the first customers that morning as the numbers on the man’s phone clicked over to read 11:00. His youngest daughter expressed her hesitancy to meet with her grandfather. 



“Can I sit next to you, Dad?” she said.

“You bet you can,” he responded.”

“I’m so happy to have this time with you, Dad,” the father was pleasantly surprised to hear his youngest daughter say this.



The rest of the crowd was soon to follow. They all stood in the entry way of Louie’s exchanging hugs and greetings. The manager drew two round high tables together, and the party of seven was seated. The middle-aged-man’s son sat next to his papa. The children’s grandfather rarely ever stopped talking. And he spoke very very loudly the whole time.



The grandfather had generously offered to buy his family this meal. He started them off with some appetizers. He ordered a margarita for himself. The son was weary, for he knew that alcohol never helped his father hold his form. It was not that the son objected to alcohol on a moral level. But, the son knew his father. He was volatile. And the alcohol only increased that volatility. The son could see fragility in the only mans darkening eyes. He could see his heart break, his suffering, it was right there just below the surface. The son also detected the violence in the old man. The son did not want his perceptions to be right. He truly hoped it would be different this time.



The food came. The son ordered salmon, which came with a wilty ceasar salad and steamed vegetable. When the son discovered black mold on his brocolli, he quietly informed their waitress, Daisha. Unfortunately, the man’s father caught wind of what was happening, announcing loudly to the entire restaurant that the brocolli was moldy, “A little penicillin never hurt anybody, Eh!?” the old man roared. The middle-aged-man’s two daughters and son-in-law sat opposite the bellowing grandfathe at the same table with their father, the middle-aged-man. They exchanged several glances of bewilderment between them. Their disbelief as the father seemed to create one cringy moment after another.



“This is how I grew up,” said the middle-aged-man to his eldest after one of these glances.



The lunch at Louie’s came to an end. The family exchanged hugs and blessings. In the parking lot, the grandfather told one last story to the family of the feral cats that lived in the rocks just down the bike path to the North. It was his father’s story and the vision that he’d had as he was awakening from his nap—a vision of a large grey cat sitting on a grey rock--that brought the middle-aged-man here as the sun was setting.



As he took to the asphalt path on the shore of lake Hefner, traffic sped by on Hefner Parkway to his East. Mallard ducks floated on the smooth water to his West. And the grey rocks that made up the shoreline reminded him of a song that he had not thought of in quite some time.



I was bitten by a serpent

By the rocks by the road by the beach

As I sat down to play my guitar

On the rocks by the road by the beach



As he continued his forward movement North, the feral cat colony came into view just one-hundred-and-fifty feet up ahead. Once he arrived there was a smell to the place, like a wild animals den. A pile of orange and yellow cat food waited to be eaten. A white paper bowl patterned with purple and blue patterns sat filled with milk. Matted hay-straw between the large grey rocks provided bedding, a soft resting place. A grey cat kept a close eye on the man who took his mandolin from the case and began singing the next lines of the song he’d written along this very shore almost twenty-five years ago.



Now it’s getting hard to breath

On the rocks by the road by the beach

And I wonder who will find me laying here

On the rocks by the road by the beach



The man wrote this song before he met the mother of his children. He wrote this song before he’d met the Jesus of the bible belt. On these same rocks by the road by the beach he wrote of the serpent. The serpent that would appear to him in visions and dreams periodically throughout his life had also appeared to him here as he sat on these rocks all those years ago. This time he played the song on his new mandolin, Lina, his gift from the Universe that his father had given him the grace to hold.



“Is this the wild-indegenous one who brings us to the feral-cat-colony?” he wondered. “Was I the wild-indigenous one who drew him to the rocks by the road by the beach nearly twenty five years ago? There sat the middle-aged-man with his expanding beard while the ducks dove and stretched their wings and floated on a relatively calm lake Hefner. Citizens passed him by on the walking path. Praise be to the Serpent who had bitten the young man so many years ago on the rocks by the road by the beach. Praise be to the cats who find their home in those rocks by the road by the beach.



Someone made their offering to the cat’s here in the form of large chunks of stinking canned meat. There was more food here than they could eat.



Just the day before, the son, before his father melted down asked his father to take him to see the cat-colony that the son now observed. His father instead, answer the calling on his life in a different way which prevented them from seeing this together. The father had surrendered to the constrictive power of the snake that was now eating him alive, digesting his flesh and his bones. Praise be to the Serpent who eats us all. Praise be to the Serpent who eats her own tail forming a circle from which only death can deliver us from!



The father had a floating model of a mallard duch in his swimming pool. But the man saw before him now dozens of real ducks. Groups of three or four periodically flapped their wings and took to the sky. Seagulls appeared over head. A small group of male mallards circled back around as the man sat there on the grey rocks, one cat still eyeing his cautiously…or was it just curiously. The man had learned on his LSD journey that he could not assume that he knew the attitude of the animals.



The man half-expected his father to spontaneously arrive on the scene, for them to share an impossibly sacred moment, as they answered the same calling on their life. The son looked up and down the walking path. He did not see his father. The north wind, which was picking up now, began to chill his fingers and agitate the waters. The ducks came and went. They circled. They landed.



The cats had plenty of food and shelters—man made shelters made of grey plastic storage containers. Large rocks placed on top prevented the shelters from blowing away. 



Two bicyclist wearing bright yellow jackets passed the colony



The cats had solar powered heaters in these man-made homes. Someone loved these wild cats. Someone even provided water dishes for the cats, although there was an entire lake of water lapping at the rocky shore. 



The same young man who once lived in this town--The young man who visited the rocks by the road by the beach—This young man also visited the zoo searching for songs. He played his guitar in reverberating stairwells. He visited the airport with his guitar, singing for the arriving travellers. He brought his guitar to the river walk in bricktown once it was built to play for the people of Oklahoma City.



One of the cats approached him now. He knelt. The cat came slowly up to him and rubbed against his leg several times, and then stepped away. The cat meowed, and then reapproached the man. The larger of two greys approached. The two cats pressed their heads together, backed up and hissed at one another.



It had been some time, over five days now, since the man had left his Eli cat at home. The Eli. The man lingered in this space with the cats, the sun setting through the clouds, traffic buzzing by behind him. He faced West toward the setting sun and the water. He acknowledged the North. He acknowledged the South. He acknowledged the East behind him. A man passed on a skateboard. 



The man considered standing up and saying his goodbyes to the cat, but he did not. He continued to linger, curious about what might happen. He adored the attention of the grey felines, basking somehow in their presence as a large woman in a pink sweatshirt approached their position. Geese honked as they flew just a few feet over the path and landed in the water.



The middle-aged-man allowed his breaths to expand, breathing in to the presence of the cats, very much like he’d enjoyed the presence of his friend at IHOP last night. All the cars on the Hefner parkway now had their light on. The lighthouse at Louie’s flashed orange. The red neon lighting trimmed the restaruant. The man’s hands grew colder.



The man recalled how his friend Fred had taught him how to windsurf on these waters. “Different waters now,” thought the man, chuckling to himself as he became nostalgic and responsive to his own being. He had brought a few girls, or rather young women out to this lake in the evening with his guitar, singing to them as the sun set. A woman passed walking a sturdy black and white pit bull mix. A man in a body suit pedaled by. The lights of the city shone on the horizon, past the lake’s waters. A man and a woman approached, holding hands.



The man felt rocked now in the buzz of the traffic behind him, and the gentle caress of the wind comforted him even as the coldness increased in his hands. Traffic on the footpath increased as the sun went down. One deep breath after another, his heart joined with this moment. The man experienced the same sense of apprectiation that he’d felt as a young man, the same sense of awe, of reverence, or perhaps a deeper sense of awe and reverence, if that can be. Or perhaps the awe and reverence were now just textured by time, witnessed through the lens of many more years of life.



He made peace with his father, once again, the one who had told him of this place. He breathed in. He breathed out. Just as his friend, the Vietnamese monk had taught him to do years ago. The ducks rose and fell on the small perturbations on the surface of the water as the sunlight continued to diminish.



One of the sayings of the man who had baptized him weeks ago at the church in Herford, Texas was this: The Goodness of God cannot be exaggerated. The middle-aged-man sensed that was true. He accepted this gift of life. He accepted his father for exactly who he was. He accepted the mother of his children as he accepted himself, even as he knew that he still harbored anger toward her, as was quite evident in the sacred flow of words this morning, that honest expression that came from the abuse that he’d received from her.



He wondered if he could say an honest prayer. He chose the one that he’d discovered at the Psychiatric unit just over a year ago. “God, please help me.” And now he added, “God please help us all.”



As he prayed this prayer, an old man with a hobble in his step appeared. The cats knew his voice. As he spoke a small cat emerged from his grey, plastic shelter. She was skinny, her hair was matted and uneven. Her breathing was labored and her posture was awkward. The man with the hobbled gait spoke to the little girl. He laid out food. He laid out yogurt on the rock.



“Are you okay?” the hobbled man aske the middle-aged-man who now realized that he was slumped, his head resting in his hands as he observed all of this happening.

“Yes, I am. thank you very much for asking,” said the middle-aged-man.



“I feed this one antibiotics,” said the older man. “you should’ve seen her a couple of weeks ago. She had green drool dripping from her mouth. But she’s getting better. I’m going to bring a cat-carrier out here and see if I can take her to the vet. I brought on out last week. I set it down on the ground. She wasn’t afraid of it, so we’ll see.”



The middle-aged-man and the old man who cared for the cats lingered there together as the sky darkened. 



“Are those solar panels for heaters in their homes?” asked the middle-aged-man.



“yeah,” said the old man, “I’m not a physicist, but that’s the best I could do.”



They lingered a moment more.



“Well,” said the old man, “you have a good evening.”



“you have a good evening too,” said the middle-aged man, “and, thank you. Thank you for your kindess towards these animals and toward me.”



The old man paused for a moment. He smiled. “This is the best part of my day,” he said.



“I think it matters for this world,” said the middle-aged-man.



“Yes, I think it does,” said the old man.



“you have a good evening,” said the man who walked with a hobble.



“you too,” said the middle aged man.



The old man walked away, and the middle aged man followed him on the path by the rocks on the Eastern shore of the body of water.



The man had felt so chilled there as he waited there with the cats in their presence. He remembered the lyrics to a song, “God is hot and God is cold…” And he felt God in the coldness, as he began to shiver when the old man asked him, “are you okay?” a gentle old man feeding the cats. And this is how a miracle came to pass on that day.



The middle-aged-man made his way slowly back to the car, walking so slowly that the old man with the hobbled gait increased his distance between them. He finally found himself again in his car, sheltered from the wind and cold. He started the engine, turned up the heater, and navigated out of the parking lot and onto the Hefner Parkway.



As he drove North, the man remembered a prayer that he’d prayed at IHOP as he stood at the urinal in preparation for his trip back to his mother’s home for the night. “Make me the Christ,” said the man. “Make me the Christ.” 



As the man drove over the great arch which joined the Hefner parkway and the turnpike he prayed for healing. I want to see healing, God. I want to lay my hands on people and see them healed, a desire that had been restored in him, or rediscovered, or perhaps risen from a deeper level than before. It was a desire that he had known from his youth.



Eight years he’d worked in physical therapy with as honest a heart as he could express, phasing in and out with his compassion levels. Over and over again he’d allowed himself to become depleted. Today after meeting the old man, the gentle old man who fed the cats, his desire to become healing in this world was renewed. 



“Make us the Christ, God. Make us the Christ. Bring healing into this world.”







