A TRANSGENDER BIOLOGIST AND A RABBI WALK INTO A BAR
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdPxnQhfGWk

A transgender biologist and a rabbi walk into a bar. The Rabbi says to the bartender,

"If a bear shits in the woods and no one is around to smell it, how fast would you have to run to outpace the speed of light when that bear is on a planet in an S-Type orbit in a binary solar system?"

Confused by what the bartender believes to be metaphysical nonsense, the bartender ignores the rabbi and says to the biologist, "How do you identify?" - a long used colloquial term in that region meaning "what do you want to drink?"

It is in this very moment that the biologist finally receives his Revelation around the rabbi's bear Parable and exclaims loudly, "QUANTUM ENTANGLEMENT!"

At which point the bartender says to the both, "Knock it off! I'm the only one who makes the transitions around here, and I'm exercising my right to deny service to your phenotype. Get out."

"The both uh yus!!!" - 

used to this, the Rabbi says to the bartender very cleverly (and this is an inside joke between himself and the biologist - put a pin in it for now, just remind me and I'll tell you later) - anyway, the Rabbi says to the bartender, "Who is this 'both' you're talking about? We identify as one."

That is just so much like the rabbi to say something like that. You just gotta know him. To the holy, All Things Are Holy. That Rabbi, he's quite a flamer - that's what we call someone who is on fire for the Lord in our Temple.

Now the rabbi and the biologist are just about bouncing out of that bar on vibrational energy which is emanating straight from their diaphragms. I'm talking belly laughter to the Higgs degree.

They are about three blocks north of Soho when the rabbi asks the biologist, "Have you taken Dark Matter into account?"

"Come on, Rab," says the biologist. "You know dark matter is just a word, a placeholder for a phenomena that we can't yet explain."

"Yes, you are correct," says the rabbi, "and that's exactly why I'm asking you to consider it in your answer."

"Dark Matter, according to our best understandings," said the rabbi, "comprises about 85 percent of the material 'what is' - and we have exactly no idea whatsoever 'what it is.' We can't see it. We can't touch it. We have no instruments which can detect it. But we know it's there because astrophysics tells us that something must be holding all the galaxies together."

Very suddenly the biologist's mood changed to somber.

"All that belly laughing busted something loose in me, Rab," said the biologist. "My transition didn't have the lasting effect that I thought it would. I keep thinking that I should have arrived by now - like I should be feeling more whole, more alive - but I don't. There's not quite the resolution that I'd hoped for. I really believed that this was it."

"That's really understandable," said the rabbi, as he allowed himself to vibrate sympathetically with the biologist's shift in frequency. "Did I ever tell you about the time I made first chair in the bass section of the orchestra?"

Said the rabbi: "I was a brand new player, but I out-practiced everyone and I nailed that audition. The veteran players were dismayed, beside themselves with envy, and there I am - this newbie - and now it is my responsibility to lead this bass section. I didn't even know what my responsibilities were as section leader."

"Turns out it's my job to write all the bowings and lead rehearsals and fix tuning and rhythms - and I'm just not equipped to do that. I don't have the experience. I just played a really good audition. I knew nothing about orchestral community. I had zero leadership skills. My Pursuit for excellence had thrown me into the fire. My ability to practice and learn a musical instrument was well beyond my capacity to facilitate a communal musical experience."

"Okay Rab," said the biologist. "I'm listening, but I certainly don't understand what you're trying to tell me. I'm feeling pretty vulnerable right now and I'm trying not to read anything in that's not there. So please just give it to me straight."

"Look, brother," said the rabbi. "We live in a confusing world. Our species' intellect is way out ahead of our hearts. We are all really afraid, and hardly anyone is honest enough with themselves to know how afraid they actually are."

The rabbi continued: "You told me that you hoped that you would experience some sense of completion. I believe you used the word 'resolution.' Everyone is looking for that resolution, and the harder we chase it, the faster it runs. It's like trying to catch up with a light beam - no matter how fast you pursue, you know how fast that light is moving. At the speed of light. And this is what we are all discovering together."

"Why you gotta talk like that, Rab?" said the biologist. "You answer my questions with more Parables. Can't you just give the answers that you know I'm so desperately looking for?"

"I talk to you like this because I love you. And it's not my job to tell you the difference between what's right and what's wrong. It's not my job to give you a resolution," said the rabbi.

The biologist snorted. "What is your job then, Rab?"

"My job is to remind you that you are free. And I'm here to remind you that you are not alone. Our job is to remind one another of those very things."

"I'm here to remind you that material - as we define it - is only 15 percent of what we know there must be. And that's why we invent words sometimes, to hold place for that great mystery which we are all discovering together. Scientists and Mystics alike."

"If you're looking for resolution, we're going to have to go deeper than this transition - and you've already discovered that for yourself, at least, that's what it looks like from where I'm standing. You are one of those who is ready to fully embrace the death and rebirth process. The cyclical nature of this universe which, when given the attention that it deserves, reveals to us the Mysteries around all the placeholder words."

"We are not separate, you and I. And we are not separate from God either."

"There it is - the biggest placeholder word that our world has ever known. So big the Jews had to invent their religion twice."

"And so it goes throughout the generations. Bifurcations in the great Tree of Life are the norm. Nothing is as solid as you once thought it was, or thought you needed it to be. Resolution - an illusion, at least while you seem to be here in this binary realm. And that sounds a lot like what you already understand about yourself - in that you are ready to transcend the binary role that you were born into."

"Yes, your answer was correct back there at the bar. Quantum entanglement. Space and time are not nearly as spacey and timey as we once thought them to be. Everything and everyone is everywhere, and all the time is now."

"You are a brave one, brother. Willing to face persecution for what you believe to be your most authentic path. Don't stop being true to yourself now - because now you are in just the right spot to discover who you truly are."

"You just won the audition. You're first chair. And now it's not what you thought."

Welcome to life!
This is what it is like for everyone 
Now, let's get to work 
let's get to love 
let's look for the next transition
we must choose for ourselves 
and we must choose together
come home
