PRACTICE AND TELOS
(from: A Transgender Biologist and a Rabbi Walk Into A Bar)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TdPxnQhfGWk


My heart is just about as open as I can imagine. Open open open. I've been making the choice time and again. I work hard for it. Really hard. I push myself like I've never pushed myself before.

But not in an angry way. Well, yeah, sometimes in an angry way. But it's an intentional funneling of the pain. I like to think of it like punk rock. I don't even like punk rock. It's not a completely unfiltered anger.

I scooped the anger in a cup and I pour it over and through my intellectual moss - this organic process that I hope filters some of the impurities. I don't know if it's working, but it certainly is giving my work an edge that I have never seen before.

I tell myself there is a legit criticism to be made of our deeply ailing systems. I look at the people and I see so much need for a really basic education in how not to become a zombie.

Breathe deep, I tell myself. There is a criticism. There is an education that must be done.

And I look at myself after all these years in which I have worked so incredibly hard in my efforts to rid myself of this terrible sickness of the mind that has apparently fallen upon us all. I say to myself: you've got the mind. You are a wildly talented writer of draft - not my words. You're a composer. You've done the study, Trav.

And today the work is your salvation.

These words today, my friend, are keeping me grounded. The crystallization of these thoughts is bringing me through today. I got to do it now. It has to be done in me.

I find myself devoted to the creation of an online archive of public writings and videos. Sometimes I am a brand culture marketer of a community that seems like it doesn't yet exist. But then it does exist - if it didn't exist I'd definitely be dead.

I have some friends who have been very very helpful in this process. And some of those exact same friends have also been very very hurtful. As I know I have also been.

And so it goes.

I was dying, y'all. I was suffocating. I felt many many times the desire - lacking in will to action - to truly cause myself harm. The authentic desire.

I went to therapy. Went to ERs. Went to the psych unit. I went to treatment centers. I went into a church building to go to a 12-step program. I wrote about myself to understand what the fuck was going on. I walked back into church.

Big big deal that was. Huge for me to walk through the doors for church again.

And this work, as I've mentioned before, might be received as some kind of post-post modern day social media SOS. I'm the guy on the corner with the cardboard sign: THE END IS NEAR, Y'ALL.

It just fits me. Because that is exactly what my life feels like. And has felt like for a long time.

I prayed last night that God would take me home. It wasn't a self-harm act. It was an authentic prayer: Please God, are you done with me? I want to dissolve back into the One. I want to come home.

And I waited there on the edge of the bed. Arms outstretched. Chest to the sky.

I focused with all my might long enough that I know the broadcast was sent.

It looks crazy to me what we are doing, guys. We need so much help. We need to stop and take more breaths. We need to meet in the park like all the time. We need to touch the trees. We need to open our hearts to the sun and watch the geese fly over the trees together. We need to play our guitars.

We need to learn to celebrate life together. The Big Big Work is going to flow from that space. We need to reconnect in ways that our current systems don't allow. We need to drop our nets - a bunch of us at the same time.

This is going to require our full attention.

Call it what you will. Frame this how you may.

Can you hear the call? Anyone else hear this call?

Time to be set free. Time for us to be what we have always known we were. Time for us to see what can occur.
