There once was a boy who received a wrong message about what his responsibilities were. He watched a television show once, when he was very young. In that television show, a very responsible man had to "put a horse down." Little Travis saw how important it was. And he felt a great emotion around it all. 

Then, one day, soon after, Little Travis found a baby bird who had fallen from his nest. The baby bird was suffering. Just as the horse had suffered on television. Little Travis knew how serious all of this was. He knew that he had a great responsibility. Little Travis was not very good at this responsibility. He made the baby bird suffer more. Travis was very afraid.

There once was a little boy who found two rabbits that had been separated from their mother. The bunnies were suffering. Or, so Little Travis surmised. Or maybe now it was different. Little Travis does not know why he did the things he did to little animals.

But it continued into his adulthood. He was never mad at the animals. He just thought that he was supposed to somehow manage these animals lives. He believed that this was somehow his responsibility. He believed that responsible adults "put animals out of their misery." 

Truthfully. There was something very hurt inside of Little Travis, that not even the Big Generative Nurturing Adult Travis can quite understand. All the writings, these represent Travis' efforts to understand what is so wrong with him.

Travis does not want to blame anyone for his hurt. Travis believes that all the animal deaths have been recorded. He has made a written testimony of his wrong doings. He wishes no being any harm any longer. Travis prays for God's help. He has asked God for forgiveness. He has listened to the voice of his children and his wife for the deepest teachings. 

It is Travis' intent to somehow allow God to use this darkness and pain for good in this world. 

I breathe in 
I breathe out
I pray that if there is anything further I can do to make this right
That God would light the path for the correction.

I have worked the 12 step program around these character defects
I have asked God to help me forgive myself. 

This most recent writing project is asking me to take a deeper look at these things.

I have asked the ClaudeLLM to ask me the most difficult questions so that I can respond to novel questions in real time.

I am certainly a questionable character.

God help us all.