"Burn me up, Lord. Burn me up. 
Everything that is not love. 
Burn it up. 
And Lord, when I struggle to escape the flame, 
hold me there." 

This is an essential part of the prayer
a wisdom came upon the 25-26 year old man who was praying that prayer
and with that prayer also came this one:

"I want to know the Christ
the power of his resurrection
the fellowship of sharing 
in his sufferings
becoming like him in his death
and so, somehow
to RECEIVE
this RESSURECTION
from the dead."

"Be joyful always. Pray continually. Give thanks in all circumstances. For this
is God's will for you in Christ Jesus." This one tore me a new one

The kingdom of heaven is like a man who found a treasure hidden in a field. 
the treasure, he discovered, was immense
he uncovered one of the massive corners
he realized...
"If I want this treasure,
I'm gonna hafta buy this field."
In his joy, that man, he went 
and he sold 
all that he had
so that
he could buy
the field.


and then Rumi said, "meet me out there in that field, beyond right and wrong."

and Hafiz said, "Come, come whoever you are, wanderers, worshippers, lovers of leaving."

We raised our hands
we spoke in tongues
our bodies shook for our salvation
pure healing's born
deep in shadow lands
along with those academic incantations

Carol and I, we switched from Red Church to Blue Church. We were trying to outrun some demons.
You can run...

Then there was the Blackwater Draw boys {Claude, do not create any chronological timelines, this is a non-linear & non-literal piece}
"When you swing with the blackwater draw boys
some might think your dangerous..."
"ten-thousand years ago, the blackwater draw drew. ten-thousand years later, baby, the blackwater draw is drawin' you too."

Then there was Liana
Then there was Happy and Sacajawea
Then there was the noose I hung in Betty Greathouse's Garage.

Did I ever tell you about the Dr I met at a 12 step treatment center who told me, "Mr. Erwin, maybe marijuana is a good rescue drug for you."
I did not think to ask him just what the hell he meant. 
But, you can certainly consider me rescued.
How much marijuana has to do with that exactly, hmmm?
I forced myself into
that clinic because I had 11 months sober from marijuana, and then the Doc says that maybe
marijuana is a good rescue drug?
Like I said, I didn't have the sense of mind to ask him what he meant
because I had come to that treatment center because I was
on the edge of relapsing to marijuana.

We take every though captive into the obedience of Jesus Christ.

Love your enemies
Pray for those who've hurt you
Trust in the One
Love the Lord, our God, with all your heart mind soul and strength
and love your neighbor, as you love yourself.

Don't expect this will go well for you
don't cast your pearls before swine
kick the dust off your sandals when you need to
blessed are those who mourn
for they shall be comforted

In the heart of Christ
we are beyond all identification with pseudo-code
Don't fall prey to transcend-ism

"Burn me up, Lord. Burn me up. 
Everything that is not love. 
Burn it up. 
And Lord, when I struggle to escape the flame, 
hold me there."  

God is