The DRAGON.
I met the DRAGON when I was at the Life Healing Center in Santa Fe New Mexico. We were instructed to go out into the world and find a sacred object, to search for an object that spoke to us, an object that seemed to hold meaning, an object that we were curious about. Animism—the idea that all objects, everything has a soul.

D-R-A-G-O-N

D...When I am the Dragon, I am Differentiated, drawing from my own well. When I am the Dragon I am not Dependent on others for my flow of nourishment. The well of Spirit that flows from my internal Being is free-flowing.

 
R...When I am the dRagon, I am Resilient. The dRagon experiences death, but he is reborn. The dRagon is confident in the capacity of Spirit to accomplish these new beginnings, these resurrections.

A... drAgon is Affectionately aware. Affectionate awareness occurs when the discipline of self-awareness (meditation/insight into the inner workings of me) and the affectionate nature of God are brought into union. Not just awareness, because awareness was not quite enough. I needed to come into union with the power that is deeper than my ego (those external parts of my being). As I combined my spiritual discipline with this affection for my Self, then I began to see transformation.
 
G… Generosity……service….the capacity to give of myself and my time and my resources. Prayer? Physical therapy.
dragOn

O...Open heart…Open mind…Open-ended Oneness…this openness is the balance for the “D” …the differentiated aspect of the Dragon. The openness acknowledges that as I draw from my own well, it is not exclusively a flow-from-within that sustains me. 

I must remain open to outside sources…other people, spiritual practices, the study of history and the evolution of consciousness etc.  

I must allow things in from external sources, just as I am naturally a consumer. 

I must eat and drink to stay alive. 

I must get out in the sun. 

I must listen to the voices of others. 

I must allow the wisdom to flow from the outside to nourish my being. 

Into my heart….into my mind….into my body

Open-endedness is a non-dual state…it is not either/or….it is both/and….it is a willingness to allow all states to flow through me…to allow all energy to flow through me


N... is for Namaste = The Divine In Me, Acknowledges the Divine in You.
