Exquisite Stillness

exquisite—extremely beautiful and delicate. highly sensitive and discriminating.

	My father is a very fearful man. Of course, he would never admit it. But his fear has eroded a deeply grooved path in his being. Like water which runs through a canyon, my father has no choice but to follow the course that fear has carved through the terrain of his inner person.
	My father has never learned that he is not exactly like his thoughts. It seems to me that he is completely identified with every thought and emotion that he experiences. That’s why he is so easily offended. If his thoughts or emotions are challenged he has no choice but to become defensive and angry.
	My father suffers deeply. But he has hidden his suffering so well from himself that he cannot understand why he feels the way he does. Because he cannot ease his own suffering he must blame people and circumstances for the way he feels. 
	I asked my father to come and help me once. He came right away. We had been estranged from one another for some time. I was going through a difficult time with a recent divorce. My kids weren’t speaking to me. I was plagued by suicidal thoughts. My father was very helpful.  He helped me to make the home where I was staying livable. When I asked him for money that he didn’t have, he became very angry, telling me, “You are the reason that I am a bitter old man. Do you know how often I have fantasized about putting a bullet in your head?” he asked.  “And your mother too. I have wanted to kill both of you for a very long time,” he said, as he continued to aim his deep pain and disappointment at me. His eyes were red and tearful and full of rage as he pointed his finger at me from across the table. Although I was also suffering, I was able to ask him to forgive me for the pain that I had caused him.
	My father does not have friends. He told me that he has intentionally pushed people out of his life and that he experiences satisfaction when his birthday passes and no one acknowledges him. He has also told me that he is hurt when no one acknowledges his birthday. He has said both things to me. I think I understand how both can exist in separate moments. I know my father’s suffering in myself. Yes, I have known it quite well.
	It is difficult for me to relate to my father. I know that if I challenge his thoughts and emotions there will be conflict. It seems that merely presenting my own experience challenges him, so I often just let him talk and talk about the way he sees the world, knowing that it will be easier if I just stay quiet.
	
	I am beginning to see how I too, have lived in fear. I am beginning to see how my suffering has injured others. I am beginning to learn how to give myself the compassion needed to allow my fearful thoughts and emotions to dissolve. I am beginning to stop blaming people and circumstances for my own suffering.
	When I was four years old I watched the movie Jaws. The ocean, I understood, is where fear resides. But that’s not really how it is. Fear resides in my own mind. The ocean is just the ocean and sharks are just sharks. I understand now that there is some remote possibility that if I go into the ocean that a shark might eat me. But if I allow my fear to dictate where I go and what I do, then I may never go into the ocean and play in the waves,or discover what is beyond the tidal pools.
	Once, when my children were much younger, we rented red kayaks and paddled them out into the Pacific Ocean . I and my oldest daughter, Anna, became seasick. Our guide, Max, a tan and bearded specimen of fearlessness, suggested that we jump in the cool ocean water to relieve our nausea. I felt sure that as soon as I jumped in the ocean that I would be eaten by a shark, but I jumped in anyway, and so did my daughter. I did not want to pass on my fear to her. It is important that we recognize our fear while not allowing it to dictate our actions. Otherwise we are just unconsciously surrendering to an unloving master.
	
	This weekend I went on a solo backpacking adventure in the Pecos Wilderness of New Mexico. As I was signing the trail register, I noticed someone had written a warning about cougars. A deer had been killed just days ago very near the hiking trail.  “Stay together!” they wrote. I was by myself. There was no one to stay together with. As I set out on the trail I felt like prey, scanning the mountain above and below for movements of large cats.
	After seven exhausting hours on the trail, I pitched my tent, made myself dinner, and built a large fire. At over eleven-thousand feet elevation, there was no one else around. As I bedded down, the crackling warmth of the flames made me feel safe and secure. It was the first time I had ever been in the wilderness all by myself. I went to sleep watching the campfire from the tent. 
Two hours later I awoke suddenly. The fire was out. It was dark. There was a mysterious clicking sound close to my camp. I was terrified.
	I lay there for some time, hoping that I could fall back to sleep, but I could not. I finally sat up in the tent as straight as I could. I listened to the strange clicking sound. A light rain began to fall on my small tent. The sound of the raindrops hitting the tent just inches from my head was unpleasant. I startled with fear when the logs in the fire shifted suddenly. My brain started inventing other reasons to be fearful, but panic was not an option. I was miles from anyone or anywhere. No cell reception. No help. no comfort.
	I recalled my meditative practice and I calmly prayed. I focused my attention on my breath. I realized that no matter how unpleasant the sound of the rain was, I could not change that. I accepted that I was vulnerable and alone in a dark forest with only a thin layer of fabric between me and the wild. I had no control over any of this. The only thing I had any chance to control was my response to fear.
	Eventually the rain stopped. I recalled something I had read earlier that day from Pema Chodron. She had encouraged me to move toward my difficulties instead of trying to push them away. I wondered, “What if I get out of this tent and just sat outside in the dark?” I allowed myself some room to make friends with this idea. Part of me was resistant, but another part of me thought that that might be okay. Minutes passed. As I opened the tent, the sound of the zipper echoed throughout the canyon. 

I am still inside the tent. I find my sandals. I sit, not forcing anything, waiting for courage to arise. I am remembering Pema who tells me to go closer to whatever threats, real or imagined, whatever might await me. I have already unzipped the tent, now I must abandon the false sense of safety, that fabric facade. My weight begins to shift forward. I watch myself become willing. As I emerge I see the silhouettes of large rocks and trees. I get up. I walk into the darkness. I move toward what was once my raging fire, but now only smolders. I sit t on a large stone by the extinguished campfire. Warmth still emanmates from the darkened coals.
I stare now,  into the dark forest, allowing myself to become aware of breath. Thoughts come and go, none of them pleasant. There is sudden and piercing howl which erupts from the darkness! No. There was no howl, but the imagination of a howl was so vivid that my heartrate increases. Now Golem is peeking at me from behind those rocks. A large mother cougar is stalking me.l She needs to feed her cubs; it has been a lean summer; she usually wouldn’t kill a human, but this one is all by himself; she followed him to this campsite and has waited for this moment all evening long.
All of these terrifying thoughts come and go. Every time a thought comes, I return to my practice; I allow myself to return to the stillness that is all around me. I tell myself, “none of these imaginations are actually happening. But listen to that stillness. It is exquisite. That stillness is all that is happening right now.” The clicking has ceased. The rain has stopped. There is absolutely no wind. I am profoundly alone, in the middle of what seems to be an infinitely still forest. This is that Exquisite stillness.
	As I leave my thoughts behind and allow myself to align with the stillness of the Pecos Wilderness there  is a quiet harmony. Stillness within. Stillness without. As the fears comee I understood that I have a choice. I can allow my mind to entertain fear, but then I will be unaware of what is really going on. So I just keep coming back to the stillness, and when I dod this, there is no fear. I have no control over what might happen in the next moment, what struggle may emerge from the darkness. But, as many of my teachers have pointed out to me. none of that is really my business anyway. As I allow the fear to dissolve, I tune in to what is actually happening, this Exquisite Stillness.  I lean against a tree, observing a sliver of peripheral moonlight and the stars, those blessed creators of worlds. 

	
	I rise from my tent long before the sun is up. I complete my ceremony, pack up my campsite, hoist it on my back, and begin my descent. As I make my way down the trail, just a few hundred yards, I encounter another camper, we wave good morning. I was not quite as alone as I thought I was.
Hiking down the mountain is often much easier than hiking up. Me and my son Joseph have hiked together a number of times. He loves science. I love the way he looks at the world. One time, he explained to me very articulately how, as we ascended the mountain, we are actually storing potential energy in our bodies, so now we have become resevoirs of potential energy that is now being released in our favor as we descend. That’s why the climb is so difficult sometimes, It takes a lot of work to store up that potential energy which will be converted to kinetic energy for the journey back down.
My feet and blistered and my back is aching as I approach my little blue car that I left at the trailhead yesterday. Buty I am sensing the release of this kinetic energy as I am now driving home from my solo backpack adventure. So, I get out my cell phone and call my father. I want to talk to him about how I had felt when I thought I might become cougar food. I know he will understand. He loves to think about the terrors of being eaten alive. The conversation that I had with my dad on the way home from the overnight trip was the impetus for the words you are now reading.
	For most of my adult life I have felt powerless to control how I respond to fear. My fears were so deeply imbedded that I didn’t even understand that they were fears. I participated in psychotherapy; I joined churches; I prayed; I had demons cast out of me; I went to AA meetings; I exercised; I studied; I tried to be a loving person; I became an atheist; I meditated; I became a feminist; I had intelligent and caring friends; I listened to my wife; I went back to school and got a better job; I played music; I got standing ovations; I did so many things to try to fix myself, but fear continued to dictate how I perceived the world. Even when the forest was still, my brain was inventing fears.
	I want to be careful here that I don’t sound like I have the answer, but if I am truthful, I feel like I do. I will try to explain. Today the answer for me is acceptance of what-is, and confidence that a power greater than myself is able and willing to restore me to sanity. When I am in the dark forest all by myself and my brain is inventing a half dozen reasons that I should be scared, I now know that I am not obligated to follow those story lines. If I am willing to look inward toward that Exquisite Stillness, I can experience a profound shift in my perception, a miracle of perception-change. Today I am willing to experience a deeper Reality than I was able to conjure for myself before I realized that it is my responsibility to see through fear. If I allow it,  deeper Reality pf conscious Love will flow from within. A well has been unstopped that I allowed to be clogged by all of my fearful suffering.
	All of those things I said about my father, those things are true about me too. And if that is the reality that I choose, I render myself powerless, bound to my fearful story lines. 
No matter how hard I tried, I could not think myself out of my inherited mental illness. But today something has changed. Today I have a reprieve from my insanity. Today I choose to place my attention on the Exquisite Stillness, that perfect quiet at the center of our being..

