Genetic drift is the story of a small boy who, tormented by shame, grows into a sexually confused young man. Coming of age in the Oklahoma bible belt, he is unable to find himself. After seeking refuge in a mystical Christ character, He marries and starts his own family, determined to right the wrongs that were done to him as a child. However, he finds that his own demons cannot be exorcised by the brand of spirituality that his new religion offers. As a police officer he becomes disgusted with the injustices of the american justice system. Rejected by his church, in a deep and angry depression, he abandons his american dream and moves his young family to live in a distant plain in Eastern New Mexico. In the arid environment of the Eastern High Plains he continues the search for an authentic self. 
Genetic Drift is a story of how a human changes over a lifetime.  It is a sacred story of a man who is lost more than found. It is a musical story about moving forward in the song after playing a wrong note. It is a common story--one in which it is often difficult to distinguish the villains from the heroes. It is an honest story in which the author resolves with the understanding that there are no absolute answers to this great mystery of consciousness which we call life.



Genetic Drift
An Autobiographical Evolution of Faith and Faithlessness,

Written by
Travis B. Erwin





Introduction

		“History’s awkward, held to the light like old film, one frame at a time…”
                                		 	                                —Fran Dripler        
					

I write to express my slightly unique experience of consciousness, hoping to detect those universal threads that weave their way through all our stories—the all-embracing essence that connects “me” with “you.” I write so that I can understand the myths that have defined me, to become more aware of the narratives that are shaping my worldview. I write, not to defend myself or my stories, but to allow myself to see, once again, that I am not the stories that I tell, that I am not obligated to react negatively to the internal fires that my spark often ignites. My hope is that these stories can be a tool to help me realize that I am not the demons that so often possess me. I hope that, in some small way, these stories might help you too.

I have spent most of my adult life trying to exorcise my demons, usually through a difficult relationship that I have with God and self-hate. I have been embarrassed to be me, frequently swinging wildly from grandiose thinking to emotional and mental self-bludgeoning. Making war with my demons has not worked.

My current approach is to make friends with these demons—to invite them to tea—to have a conversation with them—to ask them questions—I ask them, “How can I help you with your suffering?” It appears that these demons are not really terrible creatures at all, that they are wounded parts of my psyche that have separated themselves from my nurturing nature, taking on a life and a character of their own. Thank You Penny. Thank You Pema.

If it is true that these demons are actually a part of me, then why not reach out to them and give them compassion? This is what I call my practice of non-aggression: Instead of casting out those tortured parts of my being, I nurture them with self-compassion and loving kindness. It is with this hope that I have continued to create and edit these stories again and again.

I write to make peace with my past-self and those characters that inhabit my thought patterns, those folks who played the part of “other” in the narrative of my life. For it is against these phantoms that I have fought a great emotional war. In fact, my mental images of these “others” have sometimes been possessed by my own personal fears. In this way I have lived under the illusion that I am fighting someone else, when I am really just making war with myself. I realize that the “others” who inhabit my stories are not the same people they were years ago, but I have often insisted that these characters remain static in order to fit the purposes of my self-serving story lines. I write to connect with the people that these “others” have become. I write to release myself from the ties with which these memories bind me.
 
For most of my life I have wanted to be a poet-hero—some kind of prophet—the voice of the people. I have wanted to write and sing the songs that the world needed to hear—to be an instrument of healing—the sound of truth. When I failed to attain this hero status, I saw myself as a failure. I now recognize these grandiose goals for what they are-- a way-of-being that is unhealthy for me, a mere analgesic for the inevitable and unrelenting disappointments of life.
 
I have been highly self-critical, to the point of screaming at myself in the mirror, calling myself names, telling myself that it would be better if I was dead, unable to face who I really was. Ironically, I used these coping skills because they relieved my pain for short periods of time. These pain-killing practices worked. I’m a cutter without a blade, all my self-abuse, emotional. I have used this self-hate to blunt my senses so that I could continue demanding perfection from myself. When my self image was good, I felt like I was the hero-poet. But, when my self-image was bad, I saw only a weak and disgusting individual who continually sought an audience to affirm his own personhood. I depended on my audience to tell me who I was. When my audience was unable to give me this approval in the way that I desired, I turned on myself violently.

I still swing back and forth from these two extremes, imagining myself the hero, and then the villain. I recognize here one of those common threads that I mentioned before: Much of humankind seems to be caught in these binary story lines. It’s how we understand things to be. Black and White. Us and Them. Me and You. Good Guys vs. Bad Guys. Cowboys and Indians. Allies and Nazis. Cops and Robbers. God and Satan… I am now finding a truer story which is much more complex and nuanced. 
What is this true story? The true story is one that holds healing for ALL the characters involved. A story in which none of us have ever left the path—a story where we are ALL contributing to the growth of humanity—a story in which we recognize our own individuality as well as the Oneness with everything and everyone.

 I don’t expect these stories to reach a large audience. If you are one of the few people who will read these words, it is probably because our stories have somehow overlapped. If you are reading this now you have more than likely had some kind of profound effect on my life. Perhaps I wanted you to know that I am still in the process of waking up from the hypnotic state of suffering from which I have related to so many of you throughout my life. And, I truly hope that you also have not given up on your own process of awakening…

As I return to these words over time, I find myself more and more open to possibilities. The limits I have put on myself are now less controlling, yet I must still do the work to stay present in my daily life. I often feel like running away from my deepest relationships. However, as I make peace with what is, I make peace with myself. As I commit and re-commit myself to this practice I have noticed that my language changes, as does my worldview. I would like to think that my mind and heart are opening to all the possibilities of love. I hope that you will find your own love story lying somewhere between these lines. I write because I am finding myself in this love…

