Genetic Drift
				
			The whole world is made of dung and blood and devil's piss. 
			Yet, when a selfless one holds it, it tastes like sweet spring-water. 
						                                                Rumi	
	
Although I greatly respect science and the practice of rational thought, I am by no means a pure scientist. I am, at the heart of me, a pathos creature—one who will choose a story with emotional appeal over a strictly factual retelling of events, searching for a useful “truth” among detailed facts. Therefore, I do not feel compelled to adhere to a strict interpretation of scientific terms, hence the title of this little book, which is at best, merely inspired by true events.

For a time, I attempted to live with an absolute scientific/materialist philosophy. It was a result of my journey out of the fantastic realm of the magical and into reality. It was a result of some important steps in my growth process. However, I found that my personal brand of nihilism, too, was exhausting. As I ventured deep into the realms of meaningless, it seemed to demand from me a faith in absolutes that I found akin to religious fundamentalism. Just as with my religious experience, I was unable to sustain the practice. I am willing to accept this as my own limitation, perhaps a lack of creativity or visceral fortitude. As an aspiring nihilist, I found myself behaving like a fundamentalist again. With a poetic irony, having again swung from one extreme to another, I became an evangelical neo-atheist, along the lines of Richard Dawkins, preaching against the evils of religion and calling for its eradication.	By definition, nihilism requires a belief in meaninglessness. That kind of belief is beyond the realm of my faith. In a world where science permits the possibility of an infinite multiverse, it appears to me that, literally, all things may actually be possible after all, even if all things may not be possible in our tiny universe.
 .
It is in this way that I have appropriated for my own purposes, the term Genetic Drift. Genetic drift symbolizes to me the chance encounters with fortune and misfortune that all living creatures encounter. When animals are lucky, chance encounters lead to reproduction—the proliferation of their genes—the making of babies. When creatures are unlucky, these chance encounters and circumstances lead to their demise. 

I am one of the lucky ones. I found a mate. We created offspring. We have cared for our offspring and we are helping them to gain a foothold in the world. I have had relatively good health. I have had opportunity to explore multiple jobs, religions, and philosophies. I have bookshelves filled with a small library. I play music and I am learning to write. No one shoots at me. My children have food and shelter. I have experienced just enough suffering to discover my own brand of resiliency.

As I have passed down my physical DNA, I now have the opportunity to contribute to the world my spiritual DNA. Spiritual DNA for me represents those aspects of humanity that cannot be measured. The great presence in us that seems to defy definition—the being that cannot be objectified, yet presents itself to us in every moment as we acknowledge the infinite mysteries of our own consciousness. This is the stuff that fairy tales are made of. It’s the beginnings of rhythm and music—the origin of archetypes—the genesis of mythical tales—the whispy quality of being human that all the authors of all the religions have somehow helped us to recognize. The possible outcomes of human experience are vast and varied indeed.

Some of us are literally born into death, never knowing life outside the womb. Others are born into insufferable conditions and find prosperity. Some of us are born into wealth and yet live the most impoverished of lives. Some of us are born into war, yet create peace. Others are born into peace, and make war. Sometimes we are filled with hate—other times filled with love. Some are filled with ambition to rule the world, while others are content to live out seemingly insignificant lives. The outcomes are innumerable and unpredictable. It appears to me that there is great chance in it all—a humbling observation that redirects my tendency for self-righteousness.
Humanity’s good fortune has gifted us with language. Language has give us the capacity to pass down, from one generation to the next, our wisdom along with large amounts of information, which builds exponentially as our population and technology has grown. From this vast store of wisdom and information we have created story, or perhaps story created us. It is, in part, our ability to pass these great stories along that has enabled us to flourish as a species.

Often times, stories are appropriated and used to make war. Whichever side wins these wars controls the resources, and the stories that are told afterward. With their resources they advertise their stories to the world, with the appearance that the heroes in their stories have the gods on their side. In this way, the stories most worthy of being retold are hijacked and used for the purpose of the dominating power structures.

It is true that the human story is one of survival. But, I believe our species has been successful because of our willingness to nurture one another, not make war against each other. It appears to me that our world is now in great need—that in many ways we have disconnected from our nurturing nature. Is it possible that our intellect has outgrown our compassion? If so, how can we redirect our course?
My sphere of influence is small. I am writing not because I think it will make a big difference, but because I am committing myself to make a small difference in a big world. I am writing because I believe that the spark of love which exists in humanity is the spark of the divine. I believe that if I can learn to love and respect myself it matters. I believe that the love and respect that I find for myself will give others the opportunity to find that for themselves. 

I have had so much help along the way. I cannot count or remember all the many people who have shared their divine spark with me. The spark they shared was often not the spark that I thought I needed. Sometimes the spark ignited the flammable parts of me and burned me up. Strangely enough, this was the prayer I prayed twenty years ago: “Burn me up, God. Burn me up. Everything inside me that is not love, God. Burn me up.” The process was long and arduous, and it continues to this day. And it all started because I was willing to believe an unbelievable story.

The story that I believed was one of sacrifice and of love. I believed that the divine could dwell in humankind. I believed in love. That belief in love has been renewed in me today.  As the sun eclipses outside my studio, and the shadows through the leaves are shaped like crescents, my faith is renewed. I have Faith that when we learn to love ourselves and the world exactly as it is, that progress is possible. I believe in you.
