
Genetic drift is the story of a small boy who, tormented by shame, grows into a sexually confused young man. Coming of age in the Oklahoma bible belt, he is unable to find himself. After seeking refuge in a mystical Christ character, He marries and starts his own family, determined to right the wrongs that were done to him as a child. However, he finds that his own demons cannot be exorcised by the brand of spirituality that his new religion offers. As a police officer he becomes disgusted with the injustices of the american justice system. Rejected by his church, in a deep and angry depression, he abandons his american dream and moves his young family to live in a distant plain in Eastern New Mexico. In the arid environment of the Eastern High Plains he continues the search for an authentic self. 
Genetic Drift is a story of how a human changes over a lifetime.  It is a sacred story of a man who is lost more than found. It is a musical story about moving forward in the song after playing a wrong note. It is a common story—one in which it is often difficult to distinguish the villains from the heroes. It is an honest story in which the author resolves with the understanding that there are no absolute answers to this great mystery of consciousness which we call life.
























Genetic Drift
An Autobiographical Evolution of Faith and Faithlessness,

Written by
Travis B. Erwin





Introduction

“History’s awkward, held to the light like old film, one frame at a time…”
                                                                 —Fran Dripler        


I write to express my slightly unique experience of consciousness, hoping to detect those universal threads that weave their way through all our stories—the all-embracing essence that connects “me” with “you.” I write so that I can understand the myths that have defined me, to become more aware of the narratives that are shaping my worldview. I write, not to defend myself or my stories, but to allow myself to see, once again, that I am not the stories that I tell, that I am not obligated to react negatively to the internal fires that my spark often ignites. My hope is that these stories can be a tool to help me realize that I am not the demons that so often possess me. I hope that, in some small way, these stories might help you too.
I have spent most of my adult life trying to exorcise my demons, usually through a difficult relationship that I have with God and self-hate. I have been embarrassed to be me, frequently swinging wildly from grandiose thinking to emotional and mental self-bludgeoning. Making war with my demons has not worked.
My current approach is to make friends with these demons—to invite them to tea—to have a conversation with them—to ask them questions—I ask them, “How can I help you with your suffering?” It appears that these demons are not really terrible creatures at all, that they are wounded parts of my psyche that have separated themselves from my nurturing nature, taking on a life and a character of their own. Thank You Penny. Thank You Pema.
If it is true that these demons are actually a part of me, then why not reach out to them and give them compassion? This is what I call my practice of non-aggression: Instead of casting out those tortured parts of my being, I nurture them with self-compassion and loving kindness. It is with this hope that I have continued to create and edit these stories again and again.

I write to make peace with my past-self and those characters that inhabit my thought patterns, those folks who played the part of “other” in the narrative of my life. For it is against these phantoms that I have fought a great emotional war. In fact, my mental images of these “others” have sometimes been possessed by my own personal fears. In this way I have lived under the illusion that I am fighting someone else, when I am really just making war with myself. I realize that the “others” who inhabit my stories are not the same people they were years ago, but I have often insisted that these characters remain static in order to fit the purposes of my self-serving story lines. I write to connect with the people that these “others” have become. I write to release myself from the ties with which these memories bind me. 
For most of my life I have wanted to be a poet-hero—some kind of prophet—the voice of the people. I have wanted to write and sing the songs that the world needed to hear—to be an instrument of healing—the sound of truth. When I failed to attain this hero status, I saw myself as a failure. I now recognize these grandiose goals for what they are—a way-of-being that is unhealthy for me, a mere analgesic for the inevitable and unrelenting disappointments of life. 
I have been highly self-critical, to the point of screaming at myself in the mirror, calling myself names, telling myself that it would be better if I was dead, unable to face who I really was. Ironically, I used these coping skills because they relieved my pain for short periods of time. These pain-killing practices worked. I’m a cutter without a blade, all my self-abuse, emotional. I have used this self-hate to blunt my senses so that I could continue demanding perfection from myself. When my self image was good, I felt like I was the hero-poet. But, when my self-image was bad, I saw only a weak and disgusting individual who continually sought an audience to affirm his own personhood. I depended on my audience to tell me who I was. When my audience was unable to give me this approval in the way that I desired, I turned on myself violently.
I still swing back and forth from these two extremes, imagining myself the hero, and then the villain. I recognize here one of those common threads that I mentioned before: Much of humankind seems to be caught in these binary story lines. It’s how we understand things to be. Black and White. Us and Them. Me and You. Good Guys vs. Bad Guys. Cowboys and Indians. Allies and Nazis. Cops and Robbers. God and Satan… I am now finding a truer story which is much more complex and nuanced. 
What is this true story? The true story is one that holds healing for ALL the characters involved. A story in which none of us have ever left the path—a story where we are ALL contributing to the growth of humanity—a story in which we recognize our own individuality as well as the Oneness with everything and everyone.
 I don’t expect these stories to reach a large audience. If you are one of the few people who will read these words, it is probably because our stories have somehow overlapped. If you are reading this now you have more than likely had some kind of profound effect on my life. Perhaps I wanted you to know that I am still in the process of waking up from the hypnotic state of suffering from which I have related to so many of you throughout my life. And, I truly hope that you also have not given up on your own process of awakening…

As I return to these words over time, I find myself more and more open to possibilities. The limits I have put on myself are now less controlling, yet I must still do the work to stay present in my daily life. I often feel like running away from my deepest relationships. However, as I make peace with what is, I make peace with myself. As I commit and re-commit myself to this practice I have noticed that my language changes, as does my worldview. I would like to think that my mind and heart are opening to all the possibilities of love. I hope that you will find your own love story lying somewhere between these lines. I write because I am finding myself in this love…



Inside Stone

          “The child who broke
The one who woke up crying
A lovely journey…”
—Book of the Ageless Ophidian, Chapter 9 v15
    translated by Chogyam Trin Pan            


In the thick air of a cool basement, two boys faced one another. They unzipped, engaging each other in a playful sword fight of sorts. The sun’s rays angled in through a half hazed window. 
“We need to get some girls down here,” says the taller of the two. 
A disturbance causes the smaller boy to turn quickly and face the slowly arcing dust motes traveling through the white light. The sound of the opening door from the top of the stairs jump-starts the two boy’s already elevated heart rates. Stairs creaking under feet, the small boy’s grandma chides sharply, “I know what you two are doing down there, and if you don’t stop right now I’m going to tell your fathers!”
The old woman stops half way down the closed stairwell. She stares at the boys who have just barely escaped being caught with their pants down. Trying to look innocent, not knowing now what to do with his hands, the small boy averts his eyes from his grandmother’s silhouette, now analyzing the cobwebs in the corner. The oldest boy stands awkwardly wide-eyed, breathing heavily through his open mouth, staring at the woman’s feet. 
Only now, under her gaze, does the little boy grasp the gravity of his innocent play. He only knows that he does not want his dad to know. The tight faced woman with the tautly wound beauty-shop curls forces the long silence into eternity as her eyes move from one boy to the other—the boys, defenseless against those pursed-lips.

Later, the younger boy found himself. In his grandfather’s quarter acre lot, he weaved his way through stacks of railroad ties, fence sections, camper tops, and rusting livestock trailers. His curiosity renewed—the sunshine and smell of sheep shit freeing him from the pressing weight of the concrete cellar and his grandmother’s threats. He made his way to the red fence at the back of the lot—the calling of birds and the singing cicadas now the only voices in his head. He unlatched the chain on the large swinging gate, climbed the rocky embankment to the tracks, and followed the rails to the wooden Santa Fe bridge.
He chose three grey rocks from the rail bed, as many as his seven year old hands could carry, and ventured out on to the wooden planks. The creek below came in to view through the gaps under his feet. He reassured himself that the space between the ties was narrow enough that he could catch himself if he were to lose his footing. As he approached the bridges’ center, directly over the rainbowed surface of an oily stagnating pool of water, he straddled one of the gaps and dropped a stone. In simple silence it fell for what may have been a second or perhaps much longer, a trick of time the boy held too tightly. He wished his hands were big enough to carry a thousand stones.
The rock broke the filmy surface of the pool…

He was sorry he had killed the baby bird. It hadn’t gone as expected. He had killed adult birds with his BB gun before, their glistening black and purple feathers ruffling as their neck and legs collapsed under the weight of their own body. That made him feel strong and respected, like a hunter. But the bare baby bird was different. He knew, from watching TV,  that it was his duty to put that little creature out of its misery. It was suffering. In fact, he relished the responsibility. It made him feel so grown up and wise. That tiny naked creature, fallen from her nest, screeched and squirmed under the pressure of the curved x-acto blade on its neck. Half way through the surprisingly sinewy flesh, perplexed and horrified, the boy felt the warm red blood on his hands, but the baby would not die. The boy stood and ran before he’d completed the ceremony, dirt on his knees, the pitiful writhing life form still squirming on the brick altar. He pushed open the screen door and clamored quickly up the stairs to his mother’s room. She was folding laundry. He cried in her arms.

From his perch on the bridge he dropped the second rock. Another moment of silence. He could hear his breath hovering over the chasm between himself and the water below. It was that space that held his attention, that quiet moment between release and splash down…
He had once imagined a stone so smooth that it couldn’t be held. Then the perfect creamy surface of the stone contracted into a shadowy, craggling, painful object. Too terrible to touch. Sometimes, if he kept his eyes closed, he could witness this transformation over and over again; the hypnotizing change was out of his control.
 As he released the final rock it strayed from its intended course and glanced off the sticky, tarred surface of the tie. The boy lost sight of it and carelessly repositioned his feet so that, with his eyes, he could follow the descent of the rock. Losing his footing with the wind, he connected himself to the silence again for a brief moment. He could hear the stone dancing on the rocks below as he regained his balance. His heart came back to his chest in loud thumps that he could feel in his ears. 

That night the boy lay in bed knowing that he could not go to school the next day. This knowing was manifested in a physical sensation that he would one day call dread; it was uncontrollable, like the smooth stone’s transformation into something untouchable. 
If he could make himself vomit his parents would have to let him stay home. He walked to the bathroom and shoved a finger down his throat but was unable to produce any substance from his stomach. He gagged as loud as he could and then plopped down heavily onto the cold white tile by the toilet, hoping his parents would hear his distress, angered by his general state of physical well-being. Wishing for disease, he recalled the stone’s hushed descent. It comforted him for one moment before the image of his grandmother returned like a chronic illness. Several more failed attempts at throwing-up produced pitiful gurgling sounds, causing his father to yell from upstairs, “You ARE going to school tomorrow!” The boy gave up on the process, hoisted himself from the floor, slumped his shoulders and plodded back to his bed.
He lay on his back, pulled the covers up to his chin, and focused his attention on the cracks in the ceiling. He sensed the rise and fall of his chest. Again he thought about the pocked stones, the tracks, the bridge, the dirty rainbow covering the foul waters. He perceived the weightlessness of the rock in the moment before it broke the surface. He stopped the descent in mid air, hovering himself in that space below the bridge. He became the stone’s mind.
His breathing slowed. Hands and feet buzzed. His limbs retreated. Eyes became black circles. Scaled skin slid under sheets. He lowered his long thick body from the soft bed to the scarred hardwood floor, curving along, past the bathroom tiles and up the stairs. His parents were sleeping. He paused for a moment as he reached the open door, surprised by his tongue as it slipped from his mouth; he could taste his parent’s breath and sweat in the air, hanging thick. He slid forward now, under their bed. He quickly curved his body around the hanging blankets, up and over his father’s chest, under sheets, and around his mother’s radiating leg. Entwined with the two, he rested, perfectly still, perfectly silent, his scaled skin detecting what had before been unknowable. He remained there for the time it takes a stone to fall. Then, as quickly and quietly as he had come, he unwound himself from their unconscious bodies and lowered his body onto an oval rug.
The reticulated form found its way to the laundry chute and spiraled down the smooth walls to the cellar where it curled in a corner next to the water heater, motionless, in a deep reptilian meditation, breathing long slow breaths—breaths that were very much like the stillness inside stone.


Patrimony
“Crocodilian
Deepest reptilian brain
He eats the children…”
—Book of the Ageless Ophidian, Chapter 12 v42
                                      translated by Chogyam Trin Pan


Although he and his friend never returned to the basement, he suspected that his grandmother had told on him anyway. His father was not a religious man, but he did preach fervently against the dirty butt-fuckers who soiled the earth with their flaming feminine accents. Untouchables. the most despised of humanity. The homos. The faggots. 
The boy willingly sang in his father’s angry choir while often suspecting himself to be just such an abomination. There had been the cellar; and sometimes there were daydreams, uncontrollable, like the contraction of the smooth stone in his mind, the thoughts playing over and again in a disturbingly persistent loop. The more the boy tried to stop his thoughts, the more powerful became the feedback frequency. 
At eleven years old he anxiously awaited puberty, frequently inspecting his underarms and scrotum for signs of any growth. He patrolled his slender legs for traces of coarse hair, and imagined his penis longer and darker. Nothing happened. From quick sideways glances stolen at the urinals he knew that he was behind everyone else. While changing after gym class, some of the boys began to proudly display their primal hardware. He sensed that these more mature boys were altogether different creatures, full of  confidence produced by their impressive physical change. They were men. Terrified by their deepened voices and superior strength, he shamefully shielded his own paltry penis. He knew that he needed more if he was ever going to start fucking girls. All these thoughts, sad and shameful secrets.
The boy’s mother provided him with a sex-education book. He poked and prodded, hoping to achieve the elusive orgasm he read about. It all felt good, but no liquid. Once he could produce semen, he hoped things would change. He put on cologne and hungered for the attention of the prettiest girls. He envied the confidence of the popular boys. They had courage. It was evident in the way they moved and laughed; they were obviously animated by some mysterious force. He wanted them to talk to him. He wanted to be them.
It scared him how much he wanted them. Their smooth confidence aroused his desire and increased the frequency of his unwanted daydreams. He forgot about them sometimes, but they always came back. The fear that these fantasies produced was paralyzing. On the bus ride home from school he shut his eyes tightly to lock down the tears. The warm sun flickered from behind the trees and bounced behind his eyelids. He was afraid of what he knew was the truth, that he was a fag. 
When the boy ran with flopping wrists his father showed him how to clench his fists. When the boy was threatened at school, the father advised him to go ape-shit-crazy on his enemies. The father tried to show his son in so many ways how to be a man, but it wasn’t having any effect. The boys own father, in fact, was not quite sure of his own manhood. But the boy did not know that. The boy did know that he was not a man like his father. It was Fall and the boy was still bothered by a fantasy he’d had last spring involving a baseball teammate. 
At the movie theater he was surprised when he sat in the back row with a beautiful girl from his class. They kissed until their lips were red and puffy. Although elevated by the rapture of their mutual consent, the wetness of her lips, the smell of their mixed saliva, her smooth skin, and proof of his own heterosexuality, he broke up with her the next day at school, embarrassed by her name, Tanda. He had loved the little girl that night at the movies, so beautiful, so willing, so present, so generous with her attention. He loved her even as he cut her off by the lockers. She cried. But her name sounded so black. So embarrassing. Tanda.

He aimed hateful language at minority classmates, calling Tony, the only black kid in his grade, a walking-tootsie-roll. Afterward, Tony told Michael, “I wanna tear off my skin so I can be white!” 
His father hated the towel-heads at the university because they whistled at white women.  So, the boy had names for them too. He called his classmate, Behrang, an Iranian-Turd, or just “IT,” for short. 
“If you call me that name one more time, I am going to hit you,” Behrang said to the boy. 
The boy mindlessly rose to Behrang’s challenge, repeating the insult immediately, straight to his face. Behrang, the strong young Iranian, dropped his shoulder, shifted his weight, and applied the torque of his torso to deliver a precise punch to the boy’s guts, forcing his breath out through an opened mouth. Behrang walked away and the boy fell to the dry, red Oklahoma dirt, his neck bleeding under the sharp pressure of an invisible blade, writhing on the little bird’s altar. 
Scales formed in the dust. The snake struck, constricted, consumed the boy, then coiled into the recesses of the playground wall built from railroad ties, protected from the wind, warmed by the sun. The boy was digested slowly over many following years, the nutrients from his skin, muscles, organs, and bones metabolized by  the ageless ophidian, his friend.


Dummy Rounds

“…I have no culture. 
                          Although I appropriate
I come from nowhere….”
                           Stella Frankington, 1979


My dad was a weapons mechanic in the United States Air Force. As a five year old boy I spent mornings out on the flight line watching him arm F-4s with small blue practice bombs. After the crew chief signaled the pilot, hot exhaust erupted from the jet engines, thrusting the steely-green machines into the Oklahoma sky. The deafening roar shook the ground, an other-worldly alien power, impregnating a young boy with wonder and dread. Robed in drab military garb, dad, my first guru, opened the doors of my perception to a sacred sphere of military might.
My first worship took place in an immense cathedral filled with camouflaged phantoms. Those sleeping gods towering over us, somehow serene, resting in their temple, opened their canopies to invite me into communion. Already intoxicated by the sweet smell of hydraulic fluid and jet fuel, I placed my foot on the first rung of a yellow ladder. Dad climbed behind, helping me into the cockpit. Standing in the pilots’ seat, I solemnly lowered myself to the worn olive cushion. This was in the late 70’s, military security much looser than now. A little boy pushed the flight stick forward as the sun rose East of the 507th hangar, casting orange beams and shadows onto the memory of first ritual.
My reverence for those flying machines and their markings instilled in me an unexplored allegiance to our government’s power. Much of my elementary school years was spent rendering those imposing images onto paper with pencil or punching out pieces of plastic fighter-jet models, reveling under the influence of inebriating plastic-cement and Testor enamels. I wanted to be buried with an American flag on my coffin. My most precious possessions the twenty-millimeter machine gun bullets dad swiped from his shop. Dummy rounds, the ritual ornaments on my childhood’s chantry, those silver polished munitions my saints.  My Daydreams protected our country’s freedom, perched in the seat of a great bird, dropping explosive payloads on unsuspecting ground targets, heat seeking missiles blasting bogeys from the sky. 
In Miss Reese’s fourth grade classroom I sat by Steve Norton. He delighted at my careful sketching of the warship’s profiles. Steve knew even more about jets than I did. We were buddies right away. His dad had been a medical evac pilot in North Vietnam, flying those famous green Hueys, rescuing injured infantrymen from battle zones. Steve’s stories of his Dad’s heroism impressed me so much that I invented a big lie. I told him that my dad was an F-105 Thunderchief pilot in Vietnam. I regretted my dishonesty immediately, but only because I knew the deception would be impossible to maintain.
Out past dark on Friday night, Steve taught me how to toilet paper houses and throw eggs at passing cars. The exhilaration of those nighttime tours was addictive. I believed Steve when he told me he was fucking girls. All our friends were having sex, often with their baby sitters, or so the stories went. 
In spite of a sometimes violent domestic tension between Colonel Norton and his subordinate family members, I enjoyed sleeping over at Steve’s on weekends. We stayed up late watching spooky television: Tales from the Dark Side, Creepshow, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. I visited Steve’s house after school too. His mom made cookies while we assembled models and played flight simulators on his computer. A wave of embarrassment washed over me when it finally came out that I had fabricated the story of my dad’s wartime duties. I insisted that it was just a little joke. The Colonel frowned.
Steve and I were friends for several years. In 1986 the movie, Top Gun, was released, an inspiring Hollywood military recruiting film for at least two sixth graders, and the pinnacle of my romance with fighter jets. My passion for flying faded, but Steve went on to fulfill his boyhood dreams. I spied on his Facebook page recently. He’s a commercial airline pilot. Although a pudgy kid, he grew up square and strong. It ran in his family.

In the backyard garden, shaking, hiding between the stacked bricks and a low bush, there are two young rabbits, each small enough to cup in my hands. My friend, discovers this playful pair, presumably siblings. My heart goes out to these two tiny, fragile creatures. I wonder what we can do for them? How can we relieve their apparent loneliness, their helplessness? Where is their mother? Nowhere to be found. They are so lost, incapable of taking care of themselves. I know what must be done. I ask my friend to get a large, resealable, plastic sack from his parent’s kitchen. 
 I feel exceptional, a sensation that now I might label deja-vu. I have purpose. I am present in this particular moment and all of its sensation. I hold the bag open while my friend fills the bag with the water which has been heated by the sun inside the hose all afternoon—the smell of plastic. Once the bag is full, my friend turns off the hose and I hand him the gorged, heavy bag. One after another, I take the tiny rabbits from a large flower pot where they have been hopping in circles, trying to find their way back to the garden. One after the other, I place them into the hot bag of water. I push them under the surface. I seal the bag. We wait. 
There is a stillness. The little creatures appear to have returned to the womb, eyes closed, motionless. The only sounds are nature. Our breath. The call of the bluejay. The wind blowing through the tops of the blackjack oaks. Then my mind snaps back to this merciful event. The stillness, suddenly gone, replaced now by a panic, a horror. The light brown creatures struggle violently. This has begun, and now it cannot stop. It is more  than I expected. There is a frantic savagery to this situation now as both the rabbits expel the green, viscous contents of their stomachs into the bag. 
I have unknowingly created deep and furtive shame, another secret that must be kept. I do not run home to my mother this time. I look through my friends eyes and I see my terror. I empty the water from the bag, the lifeless bodies heavier now. I remove the trashcan lid and shove the bag under the most recent grass clippings. With a mindless “good bye”, I walk home.

The oil-boom-town of Edmond, Oklahoma was well-to-do. In the springtime, elementary school children re-enacted the Oklahoma land-run of 1889. We packed sack lunches and decorated our wagons. The starting gun cracked. Children ran like mad, schooners in tow,  pretending to be the settlers who had claimed the land which had once been given to the native Americans, this place of exile and promise.
After seventh grade however, my dad removed us from Edmond, to the opposite side of the sprawling Oklahoma City metropolitan area and into the suburbs.  My dad said that he was worried about me because he could only afford to buy me one Ralph Lauren shirt and I seemed to want so many more. This is how the story went: he moved us to the suburbs to protect us from the evils of materialism. It sounds noble to me. Dad delivered us from the belly of the beast.










Motorcycle Gang

“Those Fragile friendships
Broken-heart-revolutions
My cry from the past”
                                                  T. Erwin (1987)

The Surrey Hills Golf and Country Club was the centerpiece of our new neighborhood. My Grandpa Keith had purchased golf clubs for all his grandsons. He paid for our family’s membership at the club those first summers, so I was free to play golf as much as I wanted. 
I called the pro-shop to schedule my early tee time. The next morning, at sunrise, mom dropped me off at the steps of the modest clubhouse before she headed to work. My spiked shoes, crunching on the concrete, inspired my serious game face. The grass, still drenched from the night’s watering, gleamed in the early morning sun. The atmosphere was steeped in the rich scent of the Oklahoma soil underneath. I played that front-nine so many times—every sand trap, water hazard and turn, still indelibly etched in my memory. On the course, I always exercised the etiquette that my grandfather taught me.
My younger brother and I, along with some of my new friends from the country club, attended a one-day golf school. As we plinked around on the putting green, my brother intentionally threatened to reveal embarrassing personal information. Flushed with anger, I raised my club high in the air, striking the back of his legs with my full force, his ten-year-old knees cratering the tightly manicured putting-green as he fell.

As my eighth grade year began at a new school I hoped for change. I wanted to make friends with the popular kids, though I didn’t know who they were. After high school, a friend said to me, “I thought you were one of the popular kids.” I longed to be a leader, but felt like a follower, drawn to the confidence of others, yet incapable of feeling my own power.
At our new home in Surrey Hills, I fell in quickly with the neighbor kid across the street, Jason McMurray. “Are you popular?” I asked him, ardently longing for an affirmative answer. He stumbled in his response. I swallowed my disappointment. Jason and I had a lot in common, both quiet, small-framed boys trying to posture ourselves in a world that was bigger than we could handle. 
I told Jason that I was going to kill myself. Jason struggled with me as I pretended to put a shell in my shotgun. He finally let go of the gun and left me to my own end. I had already stored away a lot of shame in those early years, rooted in my own ambiguous sexual orientation and a paternally inherited hatred of male homosexuality.
Aaron Smith was the leader of our little group. Aaron was a mentor of mischief. What he lacked in popularity he made up for in rebellion. It was under his tutelage that I got drunk for the first time, smoked my first cigarettes, shared my first joint, huffed gas, and pierced my ear in direct opposition to my Dad’s authority. Aaron was a short but thickly built kid with black curly hair. His older brother, Tony, drove a Mustang and was a famous wild-man. My association with the Smiths ensured some level of physical protection. Aaron carried his brother’s reputation for being more than a little violent and crazy. 
The hierarchy of our group was clear, Aaron on top, Jason, Josh, and I under him. The order determined by physical dominance, Aaron punched us in the arm frequently, and if we didn’t want to be bruised, we knew we shouldn’t swing back. That didn’t stop us from occasionally trying to stand up to him, but he always maintained his dominant position.
Aaron had a motorcycle. I asked Dad to buy me one too. Although Mom threatened to divorce him if he did, Dad bought me the used Honda XL125 that was aging under the eves of Josh’s house. It needed a little world, but my dad fixed it up. So, my friends and I had a little motorcycle gang. Josh’s parents were strict and didn’t give him much room to run, but he rode on the back of Aaron’s bike when he could get away from his endless chores. 
Driving as fast as possible through the curves on Mustang Road, I wrecked my bike the first day out. I pushed the crooked Honda home, handlebars facing the wrong direction. Mom bandaged me up. The bike needed a new muffler. Dad fixed it up. Mom didn’t even bother with her objections any more. It took her six more years, but she would finally follow through on her promise to divorce her husband. 


Hendrix

“The wild ones believe. They hear the voice of the age, and never turn back.”
                             Anonymous


Muffled drum beats sent vibrations through my hands as I touched the door handle of my Dad’s little Isuzu. “Listen to this one!” He hollered with jolting enthusiasm as he handed me a cassette case. In passionate convulsions, Dad sang with all his might, “Purple haze, all in my brain, seein’ things they don’t seem the same…” He let go of the steering wheel and drove with his legs, eyes half closed, playing a spastic air guitar. As I stared down at the album art on the cassette that dad had handed me, three young men wearing bright colors and adorned with feathers stared at me from behind a fish-eye-lens. They asked me this question: Are You Experienced? 
Dad and I listened to their music as he drove me to my guitar lesson: Purple Haze, The Wind Cries Mary, Manic Depression. My Dad was in one of his manic moments, dancing with the divine, a transference of shamanic vows complete now. For the next nine years I would pursue music with all the discipline that I could muster, going from one musical guru to the next. 
As we arrived at Larsen Music on Northwest Expressway and 63rd, I stepped onto solid ground, Hendrix’ music still echoing in my ears. My guitar teacher’s name was Joe Bob Nelson. He dwelled on the opposite end of the emotional spectrum as my Dad. His quiet demeanor, grey beard, and laid back speech patterns in stark contrast to my Dad’s manic display. I had been half-heartedly attending Joe Bob’s lessons over the past few weeks, sitting across from him in a little room on the second floor of the music store as he tried to teach me to read musical notation from a Mel Bay book: Mary Had a Little Lamb, Aura Lee, Au Claire De La Lune, etc. It all seemed a very dreary experience after having just been handed over to Hendrix. 
But today, as I retrieved my Yamaha classical guitar from its case, I had arrived with my own agenda. “Have you ever heard of a guy named Jimi Hendrix?” I asked Joe Bob. A knowing smile came over his face. “Can you teach me Hey Joe?”  I said. He agreed to teach me the song after explaining that he did not agree with the violent content of the lyrics. “Hey Joe, Where you goin’ with that gun in your hand? I’m going down to shoot my old lady. You know I caught her messin’ round with another man.” Listening to Jimi sing, my blood pumped strong, his passionate poetry resounded in me. 
When Joe Bob strummed that “Jimi Hendrix” chord I just about came out of my seat. Although he was playing a classical guitar, I was infused with the spirit of 60’s Rock and Roll. The smile that came across my face that day in Joe Bob’s studio would remain with me, in some form, for the rest of my life. My Hendrix experience provided me with the motivation to practice. I wanted to make those sounds. I didn’t even put the guitar in the case when I left Joe Bob’s studio that day. I sat in the back seat of my Dad’s car making chord shapes all the way home. 
Joe Bob taught me my first twelve-bar blues progression, Honky Tonk, by Bill Doggett. My creative nature was stirred, my first compositions just simple melodies that I invented from the blues scale that Joe Bob showed me. Those bent blue notes spoke something deep. I felt connected to something big, delivered from the dreary realities of the real world. Experienced.
Months later, at school one day, I heard a sound coming from the pit. There was a crowd gathered around the edge of the carpeted crater that was used as an eighth grade assembly area. Jason Cadamy, was playing electric guitar, Talk Dirty To Me, by Poison. He captured the attention of the entire class with his power-chords and pick slides. 

Cad


Cad:    “Did you hear Zappa?”
          Trav:   “He broke the sound barrier.”
Cad:    “Just one of the greats!”
          The Woody Porsche Dialogues, 1988

Jason Cadamy lived in Surrey Hills, our little neighborhood on the outskirts of Oklahoma city. I knocked on Cad’s door one afternoon. “I’ll give you five dollars for a guitar lesson,” I said. Every day, for the next two weeks, I knocked on his door with a five dollar bill in my hand. One day, he answered the door and and said, “Your’e my friend. I can’t take your money any more.” His mom cooked spaghetti for us. Cad loved his big basset hound, “The Weir Dog.” His family had this old beat up, out-of-tune piano. Cad smashed down all the keys at once, turned around, looked me in the eyes and said, “What chord was that?” He was constantly trying to get me to listen in on sounds that I could not yet hear.
The one-on-one instruction that I received from Cad was invaluable. He introduced me to Jazz. Directing me to sit on his floor-level mattress, he forced on me John Coltrane, Eric Dolphe, Thelonius Monk, Miles Davis, Wayne Shorter, Bill Evans, Pat Metheney, Wes Montgomery, Frank Zappa, Billie Holiday, Joe Satriani, and Stevi Vai. Cad Carried those musician’s authority. He spoke with their voice. Cad knew what was good for me. He fed me the musical nourishment that I needed. I talked a lot, sitting there on his bed while the music was playing. He looked at me and said, “Just listen.” I’d lock on to the sounds for a few moments, then I’d come right back to my words. Cad was patient. My peer. My mentor.
He taught me about form and structure; I followed Coltrane’s improvisations through Giant Steps. I wasn’t playing anything like that, and I still can’t, but he showed me how to listen through the form. He helped me to embrace the mystery of cryptic sound. He insisted that I respect those vibrations. He had so many opinions about so many things. He woke up my brain and my heart. After I got to know him, I argued with him. It made my brain tingle. He helped me to develop an off-center sense of humor. We screamed at the tops of our lungs singing Coltrane’s licks from Cousin Mary. We watched Monty Python films, guitar shredder instructional videos and documentary films about Jazz musicians. He knew about art, and had a print of Picasso’s “Three Musicians” hanging in his room. I have that same print hanging in my studio now. We piled in his mom’s old station wagon, the “woody porsche,” cranking up Coltrane’s A Love Supreme until the speakers tweaked. He hunched over the steering wheel screaming, “Yes! Yes!” He was a different kind of crazy, and I loved it. Coltrane and Cad churned my guts, dislodging something deep.
Cad was always very supportive of my singer/songwriter efforts. His validation helped me to feel like I was doing something right. I began listening to James Taylor and Jim Croce and learned to sing their songs. I emulated their styles, feeling at home in their brand of melancholy. I started to consider myself a real musician and songwriter. I was certain that I was destined for a musical future.
Cad was a great musician at a young age and many people recognized it. He was outside. Challenging. It was from him that I was first introduced to the concept of a “satus-quo.” He questioned authority. He questioned everything. When I was around Cad I felt like I was around someone who was going somewhere. I knew that he was going to be famous. Later on I would fault Cad for pushing me so hard.





Breed 

Trying to compare?
There is no comparison.
He’s a god on earth.
A Greek Tragedy

After Cad had challenged me to find my footing in the fringe, Jason Breed came along and brought me back inside. Breed (I knew him as Jason back then) wore cowboy boots and wrangler jeans and somehow influenced me to do the same. I wore my new outfit, first, only as a costume, so that I could meet girls at Jaime D’s, a country dance club on the south side of town. But my jeans, boots and Stetson hats eventually became part of my everyday identity. I wore ostrich skin boots, Wranglers bunched at the ankles, and a black Stetson. I displayed my thick mullet proudly, the hair growing down the back of my neck announcing my brand of youthful rebellion. 
Breed grew into his last name. He was fearless with the females. He taught himself how to swing dance, spinning those young women around the hardwood floor at Jamie D’s. He picked them up and tossed them around as they squealed with delight. While I could only manage a self-conscious two-step, Breed strutted with an obvious confidence, chest puffed as he walked into the club, on the lookout for his favorite young women. Most importantly, he was able to get girls to take their clothes off, a skill that I was desperate to learn. 
After one of the local music stores burned down, Breed reached into the ashes like a Greek god. He pulled out two playable violins, one of the white beauties toasted to a perfect golden brown. I managed to rescue an old banged up coronet. Then, as if he had received a command from Zeuss himself, Breed started a band. I wanted to play lead guitar but I wasn’t good enough, so I bought a bass from our drummer’s Dad. Breed charmed our choir director to let us use one of the schools’ old sound systems. He recruited my guru Cad to play lead guitar, David Bowen for drums, Chris Moore for keyboard, and Kyle Carter as our lead singer. Breed shook and pointed his fiddle stick, shouting directions to his crew. I faithfully memorized all the songs, reinforcing my study in the form and structure of popular music. 



Inside Outfluence

“The sixties still speak, even in the bible belt, all these years later.”
The ghost of Bhourland, 1994

As I began my college career in 1992 I secretly imagined pursuing a pre-med degree. However, I failed a trigonometry class my second semester. Self-confidence shattered, I assembled a simple balsa-wood airplane, the kind with the wind-up propeller that me and my dad used to fly at the air force base. Flying my toy around the front yard I retreated inward, convincing myself that I wasn’t smart enough to become a doctor. Trying to go with my strengths, I decided to follow music. With the whole summer ahead of us, Cad, David Bowen and I rehearsed our rock trio, playing covers by Led Zeppelin, Rush, Primus, and Hendrix. I was the bassist and lead singer. After a summer of practice, and our one and only gig, I joined Cad and David in their Jazz studies under Lee Rucker and Doc Kidwell at the University of Central Oklahoma.
The Jazz program needed bass players, but I couldn’t read music. Cad showed me how to translate the notes on the page to my instrument. I memorized my first jazz chart, a Sammy Nestico arrangement. I couldn’t follow the music and play at the same time, so when the director wanted to start somewhere in the middle of the chart, I had no idea what to play.
Giant James Fowler, a bassist who I looked up to immensely, towered over me during rehearsals, counting in my ear, pointing to the notes on the page as the beats passed. I borrowed an upright bass from the school’s string room and quickly learned to play, putting in six, ten, and twelve hour practice days, sometimes skipping classes to get in more practice time. I received a lot of praise for my efforts; the whole music department knew that I was coming up fast. My bass teacher, Larry Moore assured me that I had enough talent to join the Oklahoma City Philharmonic one day. Larry tried to teach me to breathe. I could not understand how important breathing was at the time. But, I practiced my etudes and bathed in the affirmations that I received from my new musical community. I learned to walk bass lines over jazz changes. Fowler graduated. So, the end of my second semester I was the first chair bassist in the orchestra and I played with the two top jazz bands. 
I  joined Cad and David along with Zac Lee, Matt Hope and Chris Borrel in their small Jazz combo. We called ourselves Inside Outfluence. We’d go up on the roof, smoke a joint, climb down the ladder, and play our asses off until 2am, smoking cigarettes and insulting each other with great enthusiasm. Zac was the genius composer and trombonist. Dave was the drummer; he could emulate all the greats: Philly Joe Jones, Elvin Jones, Max Roach, Tony Williams, Art Blakey. My mentor, Cad was the alien in the attic. Matt Hope was the elder sage on Tenor Saxophone; sometimes, I swear, he channeled the spirit of Coltrane. And Chris…Chris was our ghost, bare-boned like a holocaust survivor stepping out of the shadows to blow his Alto when it came his turn. We drew a lot of inspiration from Coltrane and Elvin Jones. Getting high, listening, re-animating those revolutionary sounds from the sixties, David Bowen our driving engine. I felt that my mind opened further—music felt more real than anything ever had.


Divorce
“How long did I run?
Round and round that old pine tree
Leather soles slipping”
Me, 2017

I was 19, still living at home with my parents. Dad went away for some military training and Mom asked me, “Do you think I should divorce your father?” 
“Well, he’s a real fucking asshole.” I said. “I don’t see why not.” 
Dad and I didn’t get along very well anymore. He made me feel small, often yelling and posturing himself like the Alpha male that he was. Ripping the shower door off its hinges, he screamed at me while I stood there naked on the tiles, the shower head still spewing on my bare chest. Unable to fight or flee, I froze. 
Dad brought a paper route into the home as a family project when I was fifteen. We needed the money. Sleep deprived, waking up at 4am on weekdays and 2:30 on Sunday mornings to fold papers, the family fell in on itself. The garage door standing open in the early morning hours, our animosity flowed out into the street. With ink stained fingers we pointed and screamed at each other angrily. So, at 19, when my mom asked me if she should divorce him, all I said was, “Well, he’s a real fucking asshole. I don’t see why not.”
That was just enough support to help her make her final decision. When Dad came home from his military training she was gone. She moved into a new apartment, soon to marry Marl, a man she had met at the gym. 
My Dad was angry. He blamed me for their divorce. They say that it’s never the child’s fault, but it’s hard to believe it’s not true.  He chased me around the pine tree in our front yard. Although the leather souls of my boots didn’t provide nearly enough traction, there was no way I was going to let him catch me. He was mad with rage; he doesn’t remember blaming me. 
Later that same day, while Dad was at work, I came home one last time to get my bed and some clothes. My heart raced as I made my big escape. Breed and Kyle Carter let me move in with them on short notice. I made my first trip to the grocery store that night, all grown up, throwing boxes of macaroni and cheese into the shopping cart.



Identity Crisis


Those wet shower screams
After all this time ring clearly
Bouncing off the walls
Lyrics from, The Sensitive Nature 
(printed with permission, all copyrights reserved)

Out on my own, I began looking for something to fill that empty space left by my broken family. I maintained a relationship with both my parents, but I felt betrayed. Their divorce somehow called into question my own identity. I was threatened by the lie that I felt their relationship had been. Vaguely aware now that music was not enough to fill me completely, I sought out companionship. I met a young woman, a strong and beautiful music- theater major at the university. 
Staci Gray could sing like no one I ever met. Her voice captivated me. I learned so much just listening to her. She taught me how to disconnect from my critical nature enough to watch Star Trek the Next Generation. For the first time in my life, sex was readily available. She made me feel whole. She was fun to be around, and she always had a bag of weed. I quickly became very serious about our relationship. In need of the emotional support that I had lost with the crumbling of my dysfunctional family, she became my rock. 
Trying to find a way to get away from my Dad’s financial support, I joined the Army National Guard. I rode a greyhound bus ninety-eight miles South to Fort Sill. I told myself that I would not crumble under the military’s pressure. But, the force exerted by that age-old system was more than my under-developed emotional coping skills could handle. Drill sergeants instructed us to forget about our old lives. “Forget about your girlfriend back home, private!” they screamed. “She won’t be there when you get back. Jody is fuckin’ her right now.” Drill sergeant Hilliard, a towering black man with an angry lisp screamed at us in the showers, the soles of his spit-shined combat boots angrily slapping the wet tiles. We wore only shower sandals, and the bare remnants of our hair.
I tried to keep singing. But, after I made a comment about the differences in caucasian and African-American culture, I was accused of being a racist by several of my fellow soldiers. Maybe I was a racist. In grade school I called my minority classmates hateful names. I thought I was over that though. Shit, I loved Jazz, how could I be a racist? Private Benjamin, black as night, whispered to me, “I’m going to cut your throat while your’e sleeping.” I don’t know how long I lasted; maybe a few days; maybe a week. I finally broke down in formation. I cried. Uncontrollable sobs. In front of everybody. Drill Sgt. White stripped me of my arm band and made sure that Private Benjamin had his chance with me on the pugil stick range. I became a target of ridicule, my ego black and blue.
Contrary to the drill Sergeants’ predictions, Staci was waiting for me after I completed basic training. I resumed my music studies. I was first chair in the orchestra. I was in the first and second Jazz bands. But, I felt that something was not right. I got angry at Cad. He had embarrassed me on stage by insisting that I read chord charts that I had never seen before. I drew a line. When he crossed that line again I got even angrier. I quit the band, stating that I couldn’t play with Cad any more. Since there was a shortage of bass players, instead of letting me go, the guys replaced Cad with another guitarist, Clint Pope. I know that was painful for Cad. I got to stay with the band, but my relationship with him has never recovered. 
After basic training, I was no longer interested in moving forward with my music career. Playing in the top two Jazz bands and the orchestra meant that I was in rehearsals for fifteen hours a week and I wasn’t enjoying any of it. I was burnt out. I was confused. I had a hard time focusing. Overwhelmed by a sense of inadequacy and self-loathing, I saw music at the University as a hopeless pursuit. I was too far behind in my music reading skills. While I had just begun, everyone else had been reading music since the sixth grade. I embarrassed myself trying to play the Eccles Sonata at a department recital; lost my place in the music; had to start over; unable to finish. I was crushed. I lacked the emotional intelligence needed to heal from my injuries.

I had a couple of homosexual dreams. As I sat down to practice my reading skills one day, I faced something old and terrible, ideas I had repressed since I was much younger. I feared that I was gay. This was a real problem because I was raised to believe that homosexual men were sub-humans. I was terrified, unable to fight or flee. My feet froze to the floor when I stood in front of mirrors. My mind raced, afraid to look into my own eyes. I told myself that as long as Staci was my girlfriend that everything would be okay.
Staci and I lived together. We both had our own apartments but we were never apart. One night she didn’t come home until 3am. She told me that she had been caught behind a train all night, a story that I wanted to believe, but knew I couldn’t. She left me for a guy named Chuck.
Disillusioned, I quit school, telling myself that I was going to self-educate. I read Jack Kerouac’s on the road and anything else that interested me. I ate burritos and drank coffee and wine for breakfast.  I imagined myself a free thinking bohemian. I got a job working in my Mom’s office entering data into a computer. I continued writing songs and poems. I carried my guitar with me wherever I went. I hated mirrors.
I was plagued by a recurring nightmare in which I turned into a green lizard monster. Playing guitar with Clint one night at his apartment, I suddenly felt a powerful physical attraction toward him. I got up and quickly made my way to the bathroom. I splashed water on my face. I looked in the mirror. The green lizard was staring back at me. I went home to my apartment and sat at the top of the stairs, wishing I could find the courage to kill myself. I knew that I wouldn’t.




Filled With The Spirit

“You are the distance, traveled one step at a time, holy pilgrimage…”
Mel Drysler
Black Preacher Man

Chris Moore was a fellow music student at UCO, a high school friend, and my graduating class’s president. Just a few years earlier, we had played music together in Breed’s country band. Shortly after I started dating Staci, Chris and I rented a smelly little two-story cave in a rundown apartment complex at the corner of Broadway and 33rd. 
Chris, coming home late one night after a gig, began talking about how he felt it was time to make some changes in his life. Being very careful with his words, he articulated his need to reestablish his relationship with God. Perhaps Chris was already aware of the alienating potential of repentance, a subtle aspect of spirituality with which I was still unfamiliar.
Chris had been offered a job playing keyboard for a newly formed church. As he geared up for the responsibilities of serving as a music minister he initiated a dialogue with me about his Christianity. I already knew that in his early teens he had been a devout Christian. Now he explained how he had been mentored by an older musician, a guy named Danny Chambers. His friendship with Danny and Jesus had been very important. Chris explained that the focus of his faith was based on what he called “a personal relationship with God.” He was now ready to renew that relationship. 
Chris soon offered me a position playing bass in his new church band. The Sunday morning job paid fifty dollars a week, my rent for the month, and it didn’t get in the way of any other gigs that might come my way. Of course, I said yes. 
Fullness Christian Fellowship held their small service in the conference room at the Four Seasons Inn off Broadway Extension. They shook. they cried. They spoke in tongues and prophesied. It was unlike anything I’d ever seen outside the Blues Brothers movie. I was fascinated, but it made me uncomfortable. I watched one young man crying. I was gripped by his public display of grief.
After a few Sundays I started to feel a little more relaxed with the situation. Some of the members of the congregation showed interest in me. They were very friendly, helping me load my music equipment in the car after the service. 
Wade Inman, the saxophonist, asked me to play bass for an out-of-town gig. The job didn’t pay, it involved an entire days travel, and it was at a women’s prison. It sounded terrible. But, I said that I would do it based on a notion that I wanted to “give something back to the world.” 
The next morning I had a hangover as I found my seat in Wade’s white gospel van. But that afternoon, playing for the women behind those fences, I felt just fine. In fact, I felt better than fine. Those ladies jumped and shouted and danced for an hour and a half. As our encore we played Sweet Home Alabama, by Lynyrd Skynyrd. I hated that song. But somehow, in the elevated atmosphere, there was nowhere else I wanted to be than right there, a very striking sensation considering the persistent state of suffering that I had been stuck in.
That night, after a long van ride, standing in Wade’s driveway, he prayed with me and I gave my life to Christ. Wade explained to me how all humans were born into a life ruled by sin, and how we needed to be reborn into a brand new life. It was easy for me to believe that I was a sinner. I needed to believe. My recurring lizard dream represented sin nature. I wondered if it had been a dream from God. I was ready for this new life of spirit that Wade and Jesus were offering. Wade and I stayed up into the early morning hours, reading from the book of Romans. He was trying to help me off to a good start in my new faith. Before I left that night, he gave me a bible with instructions to stick to the four gospels. As I pulled out of Wade’s driveway and turned the corner I knew that I would never be the same again.
I immediately began talking with my new friend Jesus, developing the relationship that Chris and Wade talked about. As I read the gospels I wept as Jesus healed the sick, taught about love, gave up his life, became our sin, and finally rose again to allow us our rebirth and deliverance from death. I fell in love with the character of Christ. I swore that colors seemed brighter as I emerged from the web of fear that had been immobilizing me. I talked to Jesus about my deepest fears. He was the first person that I had ever shared my darkest secrets with. I wasn’t scared any more.
I read about how Jesus peacefully disrupted an angry crowd of people who were about to stone a woman to death. I was enamored by this compassionate display of power; the sacrifice I saw him make for the sake of humanity as he made that walk to the cross; and the discipline that it must have taken to willingly hang there. I was impressed beyond all measure, overflowing with God’s love. I could sense these stories changing my life. I was all in. A true believer.
I quickly discovered myself well suited for an inward life of spirituality. I found Jesus to be a very friendly companion. Every night, I prayed myself to sleep, sensing God’s presence and protection. Every morning, I fell to my knees on the floor beside my bed, asking that God’s will be done in my life, waiting on His presence. I fasted and prayed, at least once breaking my fast with beer and weed. I welcomed Jesus into every corner of my life. It seemed to me that He did not have a problem jumping in my little truck, going over to my friends apartment, just hanging out, doing all the things I had done before I had known Him. 
I was experimenting with the practice of hearing God’s voice, a convention highly encouraged in my recently adopted church. 
“What do you think about getting high.” I asked Jesus. 
I waited in silence for an answer. He simply told me, “I have better for you.” He didn’t tell me that I shouldn’t smoke pot. He didn’t say it was against his rules. But, I soon stopped because I wanted the “better” that he had for me. I found Jesus to be a very helpful person in my life.


Me and My friend Amy

“Fundamentalist.
Holy scripture of my own—
Misinterpreted…”
Devil’s Diary

One bright Spring day, me and my friend Amy drove out to the less populated areas North of Edmond. We were trying to write some music together, searching for a song. Amy’s friendship had been very special to me. We played guitar and talked about life. She was there for me during my breakup with Staci, trying to help me understand impermanence. “Change is inevitable,” She told me. “I hate change,” I told her. 
As Amy and I drove the mostly-empty roads in her little city car, we passed some slow moving pedestrians. On a red dirt road, we passed a man riding on horseback. We stopped at a convenient store, where a little lonely lady, buying cat food at a convenient store, told us about the love of Jesus Christ, an event that would have made me uncomfortable just weeks ago, but now I understood. I took it as a sign to share the gospel with Amy.
As we got back in the car and drove on down the road, Amy questioned me about my recent conversion. She was curious about all the changes I was making. She doubted the validity of my claim that Jesus Christ was the son of God. “Why are you doing this?” she asked. 
I was unable to tell her directly about my personal fear of mirrors and my lizard identity. So, I explained it to her in a parable: “It’s like this,” I said, as I stepped out on faith and allowed God to fill my mouth with His words. “Imagine you woke up one morning and everyone in the world had disappeared except for you. You are lonely and scared and you don’t know what to do. One day you find a book. In the book you read, that in order for all the people that you know to return, all you have to do is believe that they were never gone in the first place. Wouldn’t you be willing to believe, then?” I felt very proud of my mystical story and the question I had posed to her. It was obvious to me that there was only one correct answer. But then Amy said something that I didn’t expect. “No, I wouldn’t believe,” she said. “Because it wouldn’t be the truth.”
“Let me ask you this,” Amy said. “If I don’t believe in Jesus, Do you think I am going to hell?” 
She was pressing me on an issue that I hadn’t thought about. I had never considered the greater theological implications of my new belief that Jesus was the only Truth, The only Way, The one giver of Life. I considered her question for a moment. I had been told that it was essential to believe that the bible was the infallible Word of God. I was convinced that my recent salvation from paralyzing fear was attached to my willingness to believe in God and His holy Word. In other words, the relief that I was experiencing seemed clearly linked to my faith. What that meant for the rest of the world, I had yet to consider.
With hesitancy, I concluded that her statement must be true. “Yes,” I said “If you don’t believe in Jesus you are going to hell.”
Me and my friend Amy continued driving on down the road until we found a real nice bridge, with a very pleasant view. We played a couple of songs there that we already knew. We drove home and parted ways.








Carol
everything is gold
all the kids are smiling
you are here with me…
Anonymous

I met Carol playing in the Church band. David Bowen was playing drums that day (I was trying to get all my musician friends on the straight and narrow by inviting them to play at church). After we finished the service David tapped me on the shoulder and suggested that I ask Carol out. “Okay.” I said, and turned around to pack up my gear. He tapped me on the shoulder again, looked at me very seriously, and told me how, as Carol and I sang together, he had seen this Aura of light connecting us. I immediately asked her if she would like to have coffee with me. She said yes.
As I sat with Carol at the coffee shop she was the first person that was really able to understand me about the spiritual awakening that I was experiencing. She listened to me with the same caring heart that I imagined Jesus to have. I offered to give her guitar lessons. It wasn’t long before we were spending a lot of time together. She was beautiful. Smart. Strong. Soft. Caring. She validated my life experiences. We quickly became best friends.
Sitting at Chili’s one night I explained to her why I felt like she should consider marrying me. “God is love right? Well, there’s a lot of God between us. So I think that you should be my wife.” It wasn’t all that romantic, I admit. I was okay when she didn’t say yes right away. She went home to think about it. She said that she would call me after she had some time to consider. I prayed, asking God’s will to be done. It was all very fast and somewhat ridiculous I suppose. 
Six months after we met, It was our wedding day. My face hurt from a self-sustaining involuntary smile as I greeted friends and family arriving at the church. In the preceding months I had been endowed with an indomitable optimism, impressing our church family with my great faith. I had confidence that my future with Carol would be blessed by God. My friendship with Jesus had catapulted me into a great arc. Although my state of elation would eventually prove itself unsustainable, I was sure that I had sprouted spiritual wings suitable for perpetual flight. I had quickly become a master at casting out doubt, hooked by the power of my faith. I prayed frequently, “Oh Lord, I believe. Help me in my disbelief.” God was on my side. I was sure of that. Through his Holy Spirit I could overcome any doubt that the Devil sent my way. 
Carol and I dreamed about a future filled with ministry. Rescued from our sins, we owed our lives to the one true living God. I still sometimes cringe as I recall my youthful arrogance. I would not soon leave it behind. God’s power seemed the only reasonable explanation  for the psychological transformations that both Carol and I had undergone. We were lost, God found us, led us to one another, and He would fulfill His purposes through our union. Our marriage would be a terrible blow to Satan. Carol and I placed a confidence in one another that enhanced our spiritual reality.
I bought Carol’s wedding ring with the savings bonds that my grandparents had given me over my first 20 birthdays. Our families paid for the wedding ceremony, rehearsal dinner, reception, and a short honeymoon in Eureka Springs, Arkansas. And they would help us financially for many years after. 
Returning merrily from our honeymoon, we began our newlywed life in a little brick house on Westchester Drive in The Village. My mom got me a job at Yellow Freight Company driving a fork lift on the docks. I made twelve dollars an hour, the best wage I had ever earned. But, the dock was a frightening place for me. There were a myriad of ways I might crush my musical hands. Although the money was great, it couldn’t keep me. I quickly changed jobs so that I could work with a Christian friend, Brian Neely. 
I made five dollars an hour working at Brian’s screen printing shop. The pay cut didn’t matter to me. I went where God told me to go, and Inkling Design is where He wanted me. Although he was already a Christian, I preached my gospel to Brian. He was very open to my enthusiastic energy. I was a welcome distraction from his work. We became good friends and he expressed gratefulness for the change I brought into his life. 
Then, Carol’s father offered me a job as a farm-hand on the land that he was working in southern Oklahoma. I jumped at the opportunity. Carol and I imagined ourselves pioneers, like the family from Little House On The Prairie. I would wear a hat in the field, Carol would stay home and raise kids while producing canned goods. She was pregnant before we made the move.















The Farm

“zealots in our youth
gravitating to extremes
swinging back and forth…”
Benjamin E. Rinn
The Way to Healing

In March of 1998, expecting the birth of our first child, Carol and I relocated to Sulphur, Oklahoma. We moved into a dilapidated, rodent-infested farmhouse. Carol, with terrible morning sickness, gagged at the musty smells from the pantry. Before going to bed, we set 10 mouse traps. After turning out the lights we heard them snap shut, one after another. After six or seven were sprung, I got up, disposed of the trembling creatures, and re-baited. 
I was grateful to have the opportunity to live the life of a farmer. Carol’s Father, Dan Clark, did his best to show me how to plow a straight line. Like a cresting ocean wave, the dark, rich soil turned over beneath the weight of the silvery discs, pulled by the strength of the bellowing John Deer 4430. I stopped the tractor, jumped from the cab, picked up a handful of the moist soil, brought it to my nose, and inhaled deeply, sensing spiritual communion with the land. This, I thought, as I sifted the ground through my fingers, was the ideal circumstance in which to understand the mind of God. When the plow broke I notified Dan, expecting that we would call the repairman. “We are the repairman.” Dan said, seriously. We repaired the plow, replaced the plumbing in the old farmhouse, fixed tractors, hay bailers, trucks, and fences. In the spring and summer I drove a tractor in the field. In the fall and winter I chased the cows who apparently assumed the grass greener elsewhere. 
On the tractor, I fasted and prayed, intent on developing an intimate and personal relationship with God. The tractor had air conditioning and a cassette player. A friend gave me a couple of Pat Metheny albums, Secret Story and Still Life Talking. Those sounds were etched in to my musical memory as I rocked erratically back and forth in that turbulent tractor seat. In the evenings I poured myself into the New Testament, Proverbs, and Psalms, hoping to find insight into God’s heart. Twice on Sunday and once on Wednesday evening we attended Dan’s church. 
Dan was the preacher at a small and aging Church of Christ in Sulphur Oklahoma. They didn’t use musical instruments to worship. They didn’t prophesy. They didn’t raise their hands in praise, or speak in tongues. It was a significant change from the charismatic setting I had become accustomed to. There was the temptation for a spirit-filled Christian to judge those geriatric believers for their rigidity. But, we attended pot-lucks and learned to enjoy small-talk with farmers and their wives. I tried to keep my heart open but often found myself in opposition to their religious views. 

I took myself very seriously, believing that God was training me to be an apostle. I believed that I had been anointed to open the eyes of the visionless, to set the captives free, to minister with the power of the Holy Spirit, to preach the true gospel of Christ. Carol was my help-mate, and southern Oklahoma was our first mission field. 
The sun beat down on an open dusty field, the most violently bumpy of all the farmland. A dust devil formed and swirled in my path. I stopped the tractor and jumped from the cab to allow the tornadic cloud to envelop me, exhilarated by the presence of God I perceived in that whirlwind.
I sat on an elevated rocky outcrop one evening, playing my guitar, praising God. From that particular vantage point, one could survey the town of Sulphur. I prayed and prophesied for all the people of the region. As I was leaving, I struck up a conversation with a smiling young couple. I led them to Christ, prayed with them and offered them my best spiritual advice as we parted ways, exhilerated by my mountain-top spiritual experience, presented with more evidence that God had a powerful plan for my life.

Carol’s belly swelled as Anna grew. We rented a much cleaner home which overlooked a field planted in winter wheat. We attended childbirth classes at a midwife clinic where Carol learned how to breathe and I learned how to coach. We assembled a crib and a stroller and got a room ready for Anna. 
A wave of joy washed over us when she was finally born, twelve days late, the next-to-last day of October. As she lay there, being weighed on the scale, I felt I was looking into a mirror. Carol just about drove herself crazy trying to be the perfect mother, picking Anna up at the first sign of tears, carrying her around on her hip or in a sling. I felt a great responsibility too, and a strong urge to protect and provide. 
We passed a peaceful solstice in our red brick house overlooking the now green winter wheat, the snow came down, dusting the crop and collecting on the backs of the grazing cattle. I repaired rusty barbed wire fences, coming home every day at lunch to hold the baby and doze in the rocker. The sun went down early. We all three snuggled deep in the blankets at night while a fire burned in the wood stove.
There were two spotted Australian Shepherds at the farmhouse when we moved in. They were too rowdy to be around a newborn baby. I consulted Dan about the problem. It seemed to me that this is just what farmers have to do sometimes. As I cradled the 12 gauge pump action shotgun that Carol bought me for our first wedding anniversary the two dogs happily followed me out to the field one day to a little brush pile I had predetermined. After I shot the grey one in the face, I was surprised at how he flopped around on the ground, clinging to life. I walked over and finished him off. The other dog ran toward the barn and was already well out of range. I felt sick as he cowered under the house for the next few days until we found him a home. 


The Fundamentalist

did you see Jesus?
did you see him on the road?
my knife slit his throat
Jill Fausten
A Crude Map of the Stars


Less than two years into our marriage, with a one year old daughter, Carol and I stepped out on faith, believing that God would show us his will for our lives. We had a big garage sale, selling everything we owned, and left the farmhouse in our rearview mirror (we sold the car along with its rearview mirror after reaching our destination). Eleven thousand dollars in our bank account, we gave eight thousand to a television ministry who claimed to be digging wells for African families. We asked God to tell us what to do with the rest of the money. We bought gifts for some friends.
Maryanne Fite, a spirit-filled woman from our spirit-filled church, agreed to let us to move in to her home as we sought God’s direction. The license plate on her Honda Accord read, “BLESSED.” Her home, decorated with ceramic Jesus statues and angels, was equipped with a library of books on the subject of living a spirit-filled Christian life. 
I got a job working at a Braum’s Dairy Store, just a twenty minute walk down the road from Maryanne’s house. I scooped ice-cream, flipped burgers, mopped floors, cleaned bathrooms and trashcans, washed dishes, and asked customers, “Do you want fries with that?” The first time I reached into the fry warmer and felt the glowing heat lamp on the back of my arm I quivered. But, I was resolved to be faithful to the tasks that God was giving me. The more degrading the task, the more I felt God’s presence. When it was time to clean the trashcan holders, I would crawl inside and revel in His presence while I scraped dried ketchup. I prayed continually, memorized scriptures, shared the gospel with co-workers, and spoke in hushed tongues. I zipped around behind the counter, building banana splits for the hungry citizens of Edmond, the same town that years ago, my dad had moved us away from, to escape the evils of materialism.
Steve Norton’s house was just two miles away. One bright afternoon the wind whipped through the double doors and Alice Norton, Steve’s mom, walked in. Steve was flying jets in the military. As I scanned her groceries and arranged them in a paper sack, pangs of jealousy and the loss of my childhood dream banged around inside my chest. I repented for my jealousy. “Lord I believe, help me in my disbelief.” I repeated the prayer several times, desperate for God to reveal his plan for my life. Maybe he would send us to Zimbabwe as missionaries. I didn’t know where Zimbabwe was or how I would help there, but the Lord had placed that country on my heart. Maybe the wells that Carol and I had paid for were in Zimbabwe. I didn’t know.
Maryanne allowed us to occupy two rooms connected by a bathroom, plenty of space for the few possessions that had survived our big sale. Anna’s crib was in one room and Carol and I slept in the other. In spite of Maryanne’s hospitality we found the situation isolating. Only a few people had supported what we’d done. Carol’s father, the preacher, warned us that the Devil was like a lion, looking for opportunities to devour young families like ours. He offered to send me to a Church of Christ ministry school as an alternative to my plan. I adamantly refused. My Mom and Dad were also shocked by our decision to liquidate. Dad grasped at straws, wondering if I was terminally ill and trying to bargain with God for my life. When I told him that that was not the case, he tried desperately to talk some sense into me, chastising me over the phone in elevated tones one stormy night, his anger only strengthening my resolve. I hung up the phone, ran out into the downpour, lightning flashing, tears mixing with rain on my face. I fell to my knees, grabbing fistfuls of mud and bermuda grass, my determination to know God concretized in my own personal passion play. 
While I was at Braums, Carol was at Maryannne’s house feeding Anna and changing diapers. Carol always had dinner ready when I came home. Maryanne sometimes let us borrow her car so we could visit friends or run errands. I re-enrolled at the University where I had studied music, taking a business class and creative writing. All of my writings, of course, were motivated by my religious fundamentalism. Although I tried to do it in relational ways, I was constantly looking for opportunities to share the gospel.
On Valentine’s day we drove Mayannes’s Honda to a cabin on a lake. I told Carol in some round-about way that I wasn’t in love with her anymore.
One day, as I drove Maryanne’s car through Edmond, God told me to pull into the McDonalds parking lot. I entered the restaurant and sat down. “No,” Said God, “Sit right over there.” I sat and waited. After a few minutes, a young man sat down across from me. I struck up a conversation with him. I kept my spiritual ears tuned, waiting for God to open a door to tell the foreigner about Jesus. The university student finished his breakfast and politely said goodbye. Not even having the opportunity to mention God, I was disappointed. I wanted to see salvations. Then God told me, “I just wanted to sit and talk with him.”
As I served in the music ministry at church, I was jealous of Chris’s leadership position. In spite of mine and Carol’s prayers, God remained silent concerning our future. I had hoped that He would release us into our greater purpose as missionaries or musicians, but He didn’t give us a clue. I wondered if something was blocking us, maybe one of those invisible powers or principalities mentioned in the book of Colossians. Then, Maryanne confided in me her doubts about Carol’s salvation. It made sense to me.
At my suggestion, Carol and I submitted ourselves to Maryanne’s exorcism ministry. If we were going to bring God’s love to the world, we would need to be free from the influence of demons. Carol went first. I waited in the kitchen, holding Anna. Maryanne and Susan’s voices elevated as they began their improvisation. I was uneasy, but looked forward to being rid of our demons once and for all. Unsure now that Carol was even saved, I was willing to endure whatever it might take to experience the fullness of God’s presence in our lives. After a half an hour, Carol finally emerged from the room. She took Anna from my arms. Nothing appeared to have changed. It was my turn. 
Maryanne directed me to sit down in her office chair. The two matriarchs walked around in circles, praying in the spirit. They took turns interrogating me. When my responses did not align with scripture, or when I confessed an ungodly emotion, they knew they had identified a demon. Then, in the name of Jesus, they cast out the demon. This process went on for some time. However, there was one unholy beast that they were having a particularly hard time with. No matter what they did, he would not leave. “Maybe this one will only come out by prayer and fasting,” said Maryanne. I began to giggle. Susan became enraged by the demon’s mocking laughter. She was not the type to be snickered at, especially by any minion of Satan (Susan may have been a spirit-filled version of a radical feminist). She bent at the hips, down to my eye level, and shook her finger in my face, shouting, “IN THE NAME OF JESUS! YOU MUST GO.” I tried to stifle my laughter, but as the intensity of their demands increased, it became uncontrollable. Although everyone involved really wanted the demon to come out, we eventually gave up. Years later I realized that the demon they were trying to cast out may have been me. 
Maryanne’s son, Kris, was an Edmond police officer. He invited me to go on a ride-along. His side arm, the glowing computer screen in his car, and the hushed but confident tones with which he spoke to his dispatcher and his sense of purpose, all drew me to his occupation. Struggling to find direction for my life, I wondered if I could do what Kris did. I asked him if he thought I could be a police officer, confessing to him that I wasn’t sure if I was tough enough for the job. I had never even been in a fist fight. Kris assured me that I could do it. I now had my mission. I knew what God wanted me to do. I would become a police officer.

It was time to leave Maryanne’s. Carol and I both knew it. Under God’s direction, I drove by our old rent-house on Westchester Drive where we had lived as newlyweds. There was a sign from God. In the front yard. For Sale. With a loan from Maryanne, we bought a red minivan. Within a matter of weeks we closed on our home. Maryanne bought us gold knobs for all the doors in our new little home. We painted the walls and moved in. Carol was pregnant with our second child. 
Braums was still my employer, but I moved to a different store, closer to our house in The Village. I was no longer evangelizing at work, but practicing my Spanish with my Mexican co-workers. The Braums at 122nd and Macarthur had the reputation for being the busiest store in the state, but they intentionally staffed with as few employees as possible. As I was promoted to the position of shift manager, I worked myself into a frenzy. My religious zeal had turned into perfectionism. I dreaded going to work.
I pushed myself to perform, moving quickly from the grill, to the freezer, then the register. But, there weren’t enough employees to serve the often angry customers. Day after day I went, knowing that God wanted me to do the best job that I could. Then, one afternoon, the sticky, dried ice cream on the soles of my shoes just held me in place. I couldn’t move; couldn’t make myself take another step. Just stood there with a waffle cone in my hand for a full minute. I turned around and walked over to the store manager as he sat in a booth making next week’s schedule. I told him that I was quitting. I didn’t have another job lined out. Carol was pregnant with Joseph, and depending on me as the sole provider. I drove home and told her that I was unemployed.
Brian Neely helped me get a job working for his Dad as an assistant in his remodeling business. Tom Neely was a stout, bald man with a white mustache and extended sideburns. He always wore a ball cap. He was a Vietnam veteran, and liked to listen to G. Gordon Libby and Rush Limbaugh on talk radio. Sometimes, before we started work in the morning we would go over to the Wiley Post airport cafe and drink coffee. He was always a kind man, never showing any aggression toward me. He paid me nine dollars an hour in cash at the end of every week. I learned to measure twice and cut once, to keep my fingers clear from the table saw, and that all jobs take longer than you think they are going to.
Joseph was born on September 1, 2000, just a few months after we moved into our little brick house on Westchester. I was proud to have a son. He quickly grew into a cute little guy with a great laugh.
As I worked for Tom, I tried to get hired as a police officer. Edmond PD, Kris’s department, wouldn’t allow me to interview because of my prior marijuana use. I made it through the Oklahoma City Police Department’s physical fitness test. I got an interview, only to get a rejection letter in the mail. At the Village Police Department, they placed me in a chair, in the middle of a room, and interrogated me about my history with cannibis. “What would you do if you pulled over one of your old pot smoking buddies?” asked one of the interviewers. “Well, I guess I would take him to jail.” I answered, apparently not convincingly enough. I didn’t get the job.
I quit my construction job with Tom after nine months. I didn’t give him any notice. I got a job at Guitar Center, but I was a terrible salesman. My manager tried to teach me how to close deals. I don’t like to be closed on, which is probably why I wasn’t very good at closing deals. I became known by my fellow employees as the “acoustic room troll.” I liked to hang out in that quiet, wooden room in the back, away from the electric shredders. I hung sheetrock on the walls in my little garage, planning to turn it into a music studio.

There is one song in particular that I remember from this time: Billy Austin, by Steve Earle. It’s sung from the perspective of a young man who is sentenced to death after he murders a store clerk during a robbery. In this dark ballad, Billy asks some weighty questions: “Could you pull that switch yourself, sir, with a slow and steady hand? Could you still tell yourself, sir, that your better than I am?” This song held me captive for a number of weeks, even convinced me to perform it at a bar. My audience did not seem receptive. 





The Man
Who is to be judge?
Discern holy from obscene?
I have been that one…
Patonia V. Stirlenberg
Confessions of a Hidden Preistess

I took a criminal justice class in preparation for my law enforcement career. My instructor was Richard Mask, the Nichols Hills Police Chief. In his class, I wrote what I felt was an inspired paper, hinging on Romans 13, in which I laid out the biblical reasonings for my desire to be a police officer. I had an idealistic image of myself as a “watchman” over God’s people. I even wrote a song based on those verses from Romans:

“Obey the government, for it’s God who put it there. All governments have been placed in power by God. So those who refuse to obey the laws of the land are refusing to obey God…”

Realizing how clunky and void of taste the lyrics were, I laughed at myself, expressing to Carol how my artistic career must now truly be over. But, it was scriptural, so I knew that it was pleasing to God.
In a political science class I befriended Steven Cox, an officer at Nichols Hills Police Department. After I told my new friend about my intention to be a police officer, he invited me to meet for beers with Jess, one of Steven’s fellow officers at Nichols Hills Police Department. I got along with them well. 
With Steven and Jess’ recommendation I breezed through my interview process and polygraph test at NHPD. I was quickly hired. Sergeant Funderburk drove me to the uniform shop and I was outfitted with boots, kevlar vest, and holster. Because of my Army training, I had the most highly polished boots in the department. I finally felt squared away, convinced that the only reason I had a problem in the Army was because I hadn’t known Jesus. I enrolled at the police Academy and bought a matte black forty caliber handgun.  
I was prepared for the worst as I entered the police academy. However, the physical requirements at CLEET were minimal, and the academic portion was no problem either. Compared to basic training, it was easy. I came home every night to Carol and the kids. It was a very happy time. Having persevered for two years through the job search and interview process, I was very proud of myself. It seemed that God was rewarding me for my faithful diligence.
As I walked through the academy doors on a September morning, fifteen minutes early for my eight o’clock class, some fellow cadets huddled around the television set in the lobby. The screen displayed a smoldering skyscraper. What’s going on?” I asked. 
“A plane just crashed into the World Trade Center,”  one of my classmates informed me. As he spoke those words, we watched a jet careening into the second tower.
Classes were cancelled. The academy sent us back to our departments where we were ordered to keep watch over the water towers. We braced for more attacks. It was a special time.
Our high state of vigilance and sense of purpose continued as we returned to our training. I proudly sang the national anthem at our graduation. After the ceremony, outside the church building, I walked in full uniform with my loaded sidearm for the first time among citizens. I also carried with me a sense that I finally belonged, all those years of sin and disobedience finally overcome, my loaded forty caliber proof that God was willing to entrust me with power. My parents were proud of me. Carol was proud of me. We had health insurance, and my kevlar vest added girth to my chest. I held my young son in my arms, a fine example of fatherhood. I was honored to be a servant of the state in a nation led by God’s man, George W. Bush, whom I voted for twice.
My first day on the job, 7am, I discovered that the old-fashioned drug store offered breakfast to the police officers on the morning shift. I had bacon, eggs, white toast, and orange juice, all free of charge. As I closed the door to the tiny bathroom at the end of the counter, I couldn’t help but admire myself in the mirror. My hair was high and tight. My badge glimmered in the fluorescent light which hung over the toilet. I checked the button that secured my Glock in its holster. My shoulder radio was in the on position. This was the first job I’d had where I didn’t have to empty any trashcans. I finished my business, secured my holster’s buckle, opened the door, and walked past the shelves of analgesic creams and cough drops. Spit shined boots reflected my happiness to the world. I got in the car with Sergeant Funderburk who would try to teach me how to operate the radio,  make a proper traffic stop, and develop and appropriate “us vs them” attitude toward the world.
After a few months I completed the field training and I was out on my own. Like goldfish in a little bowl, we circled our territory (we may have seemed like sharks to everyone else, but I felt like a goldfish). Nichols Hills police officers had a terrible reputation as being real hard-asses, issuing tickets on Pennsylvania, a long section of road posted twenty-five miles per hour. Everyone in town knew not to speed through that area. 
I met my mom for coffee at the Starbucks one evening. Jason Cadamy was there with our old friend Lee, who had already become a medical doctor. Cad stared at me like I was a sideshow freak. Cad, my peer. My mentor. The guy who had introduced me to Coltrane. He had no love for “the man” anyway. Now I was “the man,” and I had betrayed him in college when I had refused to play with him anymore. That was one of the most awkward moments of my life.



The Fall

“Who cast the first stone? Whose father laid with Mary? Soiling birth canals…”
                                          Falon Windsor
                                          Dogma and the Scaredy Cat

Carol and I had met Tim and Jolee Bence several years before, as we were about to move to Sulphur, Oklahoma. I admired Tim’s style and I wanted to spend time with him. Tim had a powerful, yet vulnerable, public voice. He wept passionately as he orated. He was more than a decade older than me and he had been following Christ since he was a boy. He was a prophet of God. He had no church building or supporting congregation, but he spoke of connecting the body of Christ through relationships. He was the most impressive voice of Christian spirituality I had ever encountered personally. And, as he listened to me, he validated my perspective. 
I asked Tim to disciple me. I sat with him at McDonalds while he told me about Hosea, a priest who married a prostitute because God told him to. Apparently Hosea’s buddies couldn’t believe that God would tell someone to do such a thing. Tim  spoke convincingly of a lifelong intimate relationship with God. He said that he had  healed a baby once, in a shopping mall he prayed prayed, and watched the new arms and legs grow from a congenitally malformed infant. He said that the transformation took place right before his eyes. I considered Tim a spiritual father. I wanted to see God do miracles too.
Although Carol and I were often unable to get along with Tim and Jolee’s friends (some of them wanted to heal and deliver us from demons), Tim and Jolee never rejected us. For years they opened their door and returned my telephone calls, even as my spiritual practices became more divisive. I accidentally ruined the garden outside their front door, removing some ground cover that was supposed to be perennial. My relationship with Tim grew while the connections to our church family at Fulness Christian Fellowship gradually withered like an uprooted plant. Largely alienated from our families now as a result of our religious zeal, we felt that the Bences understood us in our spiritual pursuits.

After I became a police officer, Tim introduced me to Bruce Delay. One cold night at a pub in Bricktown, Bruce attended an open-mic night where I performed. He immediately recognized my talent. I eagerly gobbled up his attention. Bruce was a big guy, projecting himself as one of God’s manly men. He liked that I was a policeman, and his approval affirmed my pursuit of traditional masculinity. He was planning to host a night of prophesy, praise, and worship. He invited me to play music, giving me free reign to “follow the spirit”. God had established me as a police officer, Now He was beginning my music ministry. 
A band came from out of town to set up their sound system for Bruce’s event. My band was scheduled to open the evenings festivities. But, once I got on stage, I dominated the entire night’s activity. Certain that I was being led by the spirit, and completely oblivious to the fact that I was depriving others of their stage time. I believed that I was only being obedient to God’s leading. The band that brought the sound system barely got to play.
I made a CD of the performance, thinking that it was an opportunity to share my unique and much-needed prophetic voice. To me, the night of music seemed a huge success. Inspired by Proverbs 19:25 I called the album Flogamocker. “Flog a mocker and the simple will learn prudence. Rebuke the discerning and they will gain knowledge.” The body of Christ needed to hear my message. God was demanding a greater faithfulness from his people. My life was proof of  the power of repentance and God’s loving-kindness.

Gradually, through a series of events at work and church, I became aware of my own arrogance. As a police officer, I found that the justice system was punishing the poor. When a woman that I took to jail was subjected to a violating cavity search, I could no longer see myself as a “good guy.” I discovered, first hand, that the system was unbalanced in favor of those who have money and power. I tried to only write traffic tickets when I saw someone driving dangerously. So, I struggled to meet my quota. Officers abused their authority. 
Frustrated at my inability to arrest bad-guys, I asked my mentor, Kris, how he did it. He told me, “I’m not telling you to profile, but you know what they look like.” Following his advice, I began to make more traffic stops based on what I thought bad-guys looked like. I quickly realized that I didn’t know what they looked like. I saw that those with money were released for crimes that the poor were punished for. I wrote a grocery store employee a four-hundred dollar ticket for smoking a joint in the parking lot. As I struggled to stay awake on the graveyard shift, Sergeant Funderburk encouraged me to adopt an “us vs them” attitude to keep me on my toes. I began to feel that I was the hand of an unjust system. I turned on myself, shocked and disgusted by my own hubris.
As my confidence in the system diminished, so did faith in my religion. I realized that I had betrayed Carol as I had doubted her salvation with Maryanne. I showed up at a church service one day and confronted Mary, intent on breaking our allegiance. She reached out to hug me. I threw up my arms in protest. My objection was perceived as physically threatening. Kris Fite, Maryanne’s son, my mentor and spiritual brother, escorted me out of the church building that day. I was marched past a line of men, all whom I had once regarded as spiritual fathers. They shook their bowed heads. Outside the church, I tried to shake Kris’ hand, only to realize that he was meeting me with an officer’s tone, as if he was humoring a crazy man on the street. I was told that if I came back that they would call my Chief of police and tell him what had happened. I was terrified by the threat, forced to look at myself through their eyes.




Flogamocker

“Spirit-fire’s burn
A ring of ash to crown
Dethroned by freedom…
The Book of the Ageless Serpent 1:v4
translated by Chogyam Trin Pan


Carol and I attended Bruce Delay’s home church. We sat solemnly one night, cross legged, on the floor, sharing the brokenness in our hearts (I realize now that our “brokenness” probably appeared like anger from the outside). I already knew what God wanted me to say and do that night. Carol’s mom had given me a beautiful leather bible for Christmas. When it came my turn to share, I spoke. Then I began ripping pages right out of the bible, a book that, to me, was no longer the infallible Word of God.
When I rotated to midnights, I couldn’t sleep. I daydreamed about my pillow all night, but I could only stay unconscious for a couple of hours in the morning, lying restless in bed for the rest of the day, listening to the kids bouncing around in the next room. Why can’t cops be like the firemen? I wondered. You know, I’ll be at the station sleeping. Call me if you need me. I’ll be there as soon as I can.
 Deprived of sleep by two months on the graveyard shift, embittered by the injustice of the justice system, enraged by my fall-from-grace with my church family, racked with self-hate and doubt, and unable to process my emotions constructively, I turned in my police uniform and sold my pistol. 
Carol gave birth to Emma, our third child. Wearing a stained, white T-shirt, I cried as I held our new baby in my arms for the first time. I was unemployed, feeling crushed by the system, betrayed by myself, and unsure of our future. 
Unwilling to go on job interviews, I sat in front of Home Depot for fifteen minutes wondering what I would say if the manager asked me if I really wanted the job. Our neighbor gave me a position at his telemarketing firm. I showed up for only one day, cringing as I called senior citizens who sat at home trying to watch Wheel-of-Fortune.

I became vocal about the failings of what I called the American Church, writing what one friend called a “manifesto” against the religious establishment. I felt empowered as I lead another friend away from his spiritual activities and toward a more pure relationship with Christ. I actually walked him out of the church building one night, explaining to him the evils of organized religion.
Adam was from Bentonville, Arkansas. I met him while I was working at Guitar Center. My instrumental skills attracted his admiration. My emotional rhetorical prowess brought tears to his eyes. Carol and I offered our friendship to him. He lived in our garage one winter and worked at the bagel shop down the street. Although he was only a few years younger than me, I imagined that he was a spiritual son. 
When I was a police officer, I considered it my responsibility to teach Adam how to be a successful citizen. You know, “Give a man a fish, he eats for a day. Teach a man to fish, and he eats for a lifetime.” I patiently explained to him the consequences of having auto insurance. I pointed out the importance of relationships and I pledged my lifelong friendship to him. Eager to have company on my domestic journey, I encouraged him to find a good woman, get married, and have children. I also showed him how to play his scale patterns on the guitar neck. 
But, now that I had been betrayed by the system, I considered Adam a brother-in-exile, instead of my student. In fact, it appeared that Adam had led me away from the evils of the institutions. I allowed myself to become his student, while educating him about the failings of the white-man’s religion. Adam, just by being part Native American, naturally drew out the white-guilt in me. I repented to him for the atrocities that Europeans had perpetrated on the Indians. Having completed what I now called “a year long study of the justice system,” I considered myself a man of the people, ready to take up any underdog’s cause. This was my new mission.

Once, I had rationalized my willingness to take a the life of a human being with my sidearm if it were to become necessary. I told myself that citizens who did no wrong had nothing to fear; that only those who refused to obey the laws of the land would be punished. Now, I held our unjust government accountable for the crimes that desperate citizens committed. If a man steals bread for his starving family, can he really be considered a criminal? How could a nation who terrorized its native population and imported slaves to build its foundation claim to be godly?
Although I felt confidently angry as a result of my deepened understanding of both iniquity and inequity, I still suffered from intense feelings of rejection. In other words, I felt justified for the separation I had made from church and government, but I felt terrible that so many people from my church now saw me as an old-lady-scarer (a title I invented for myself). Everywhere Carol and I went, we expected to see the faces of the people from our church. When we actually did, it was jarring. Was I a man of God or an instrument of Satan? Was it because I was one of God’s faithful that I had suffered this rejection? Or was it because I had strayed from God’s grace? It seemed impossible for me to know. My conclusion changed from day to day. But, whichever answer I chose, I was unable to heal my own deep wounds. I prayed for insight. “God, please show me the truth!” but I heard nothing.


Liberty Bell
“Museum visit
dystopian native past
Reeducation…”
Deacon R. Stiler

Tim Bence invited me on a road trip to visit his brother on Staten Island. Tim’s friend, Ken, came along too.  I suggested that we take my minivan. We removed the middle seats and made a sleeping area so that two of us could drive and navigate while one person rested. We planned to drive the fifteen-hundred miles straight through. 
I knew the van leaked oil, but after six hours on the road it became apparent that the leak was more severe than I had thought. After dripping from the engine, the oil traveled the length of the undercarriage, then it was caught in the air currents where it formed a mist which coated the back of the van. Every time we stopped for gas we also added a quart and a half of 10W-40, cleaning the sticky mess off the rear window.
Nearing our destination, we decided to stop off in Philadelphia to see the Liberty Bell. We parked at least a mile away. The heavy security at the entrance made for a long line. After waiting for half  an hour, I saw a sign informing us that there were no guns or knives allowed inside the perimeter. Feeling my pockets, I realized that I had my police knife with me. Engraved with my graduating class’s identifying numbers, it had been a gift from Kris Fite. Although the tip was broken off, I still carried it with me wherever I went.
We were standing by a tree which was surrounded flower bed. I buried the knife next to a flower with the intention to come back for it after we had visited the bell. The line moved forward. After several minutes I noticed quite a few park rangers in round brown hats and police officers had surrounded our position. They were all taking on their radios and seemed to be focused on me. “Hey, guys? I think I’m about to get arrested,” I said as calmly as possible. 
The officers moved in and took me into custody. They sat me down on ground by the flower bed and asked me to unearth the knife. They scolded me for my stupidity. “Did you know that we could put you in jail for this?” said one of the officers. “This knife is illegal in the state of Pennsylvania.” They kept my knife, letting me know that I was banned from the park. The Liberty Bell was off limits.
After traveling through New Jersey we crossed a bridge and arrived in Staten Island. Tim’s brother showed us our bedroom in the attic of the creakiest old house I had ever been in. We boarded the Staten Island Ferry, crossed the upper bay, passed the Statue of Liberty, and arrived in southern Manhattan, just blocks away from ground zero. 
We used the subway, a high-speed taxi, and walked through the buzzing streets of Manhattan all afternoon and into the evening. A traveling museum exhibit displayed hundreds of Native American artifacts, all telling of the atrocities committed by the invading Europeans.
On the way back from New York, as I considered my experience at the Liberty Bell and what I had learned at the museum, I was pretty worked up. I sat in the passenger seat pontificating about how I actually admired the bravery of the men who flew those jets into the towers, saying “At least those guys were willing to do something about their faith. At least they really believed.”








“Freedom”
   roast the fatted calf!
         the wayward one has returned
                ancient sarcasm

My dad bought me some recording equipment. I recorded some of my original songs. I sent them in to the same bluegrass festival that Matt had introduced me to years ago. One of my recordings was accepted. I was invited to perform my song, Brother Jack, a ballad about one man’s struggle with suicide. In the wake of his brother Jack’s death, Jo-Jo, the narrator of the song, searches for the strength and wisdom to find spirituality and continue on his own path. He is haunted by his brother’s voice:
“Jo-Jo, I’ve got a pain down in my soul, and nothing seems to make it go away. And I don’t know how much longer I can go. I don’t know how much longer I can go.”
Unemployed, with a new baby, and our meager savings drying up quickly, I travelled to Winfield Kansas to play my award winning song and compete in the National flat picking championship, wistfully hoping for some kind of career break. 
At the festival, I saw Tommy Emanuel play for a crowd of thousands. During the show I turned to face the crowd. Tommy’s audience appeared to levitate inches from their seats in the bleachers, delivered from the pain of existence for a  brief moment. This exchange between artist and listener seemed to me a miracle—the kind of magic that I wanted desperately to see in my own life. I felt a sense of purpose.  
I performed Brother Jack for a receptive audience. But then, I suffered a humiliating defeat on stage at the flatpicking contest, losing my place in the music that I had practiced for countless hours. It was a crushing blow.
On my way home from the festival, I stopped to visit my my grandmother, my grandpa’s old quarter acre lot, the railroad bridge, and the creek where I had dropped those stones as a seven year old boy. Sitting on a railroad tie by the large, red, swinging gate, I wrote some lyrics.
When I returned home to Anna, and Joseph, and Carol, who was pregnant with our youngest child Emma, I felt determined to stay true to my calling as a musician. I shared with Carol a flimsy plan for the future. I wanted to travel the country with my family in an RV, making music and friends…That was my plan. That was it. Carol, considered the idea carefully. My friend, Marc, offered his pop-up trailer for my cause. All I had to do was get a hitch for our minivan and we were ready to go roam the earth as a family.
I sat at a fountain in downtown Oklahoma City one day, praying to God for direction. A homeless man was digging in the trashcan for food. “You want freedom?” God said, “There’s freedom, right there.” The man began eating a half-sandwich he’d found in the trashcan, wrapped in stained white paper. I came home and told Carol what I’d seen. Right then, she drew a boundary around my nomadic dreams, simply stating, “That’s more than I can handle. We wouldn’t make it.” I knew she was right.






exodus

“God’s e evil spirit brought us to the promised land. Ancestral blight.”
inscription on a forgotten tombstone; 1887


I had read in the book of James that taking care of orphans is true religion. Carol’s aunt and uncle, Butch and Junie,  lived and worked at a children’s home on the Eastern High Plains of New Mexico. So, we loaded the kids in our red minivan and went for a visit. Butch got me a job interview at the children’s home, my only one since I had turned in my police uniform. I was hired as a maintenance man. Carol and I were in line to run one of the cottages where the displaced children lived. New Mexico Christian Children’s Home agreed to provide a small wage, a tiny apartment, and commissary privileges. But, I had to clean and paint our living-quarters before Carol and the kids could join me there.
After returning to Oklahoma City and packing my work clothes, I left my family at the little brick house on Westchester, driving away in an old lumbering sedan that the Bences had given us. The car was primer gray  and getting along in years, but it still rolled smooth on the highway and I thanked God for the cruise control. The clouds were pink. The sun was red, and the semi-trailers passed me, going eighty five. Energized by little red cold pills and Mountain Dew, I travelled the long stretch of  I-40 between Oklahoma City and Amarillo scribbling dangerously in a notebook, trying to stay between the lines, writing a song: “Maybe I could ride straight through to my destiny, like a highway man the best of me seems to be on the road when my future’s laid wide open…Now I’m searchin’ for a drink in a dry parched land, siftin’ through the rocks and the dirt and the sand, hopin’ I’m not who they say I am when my back is turned.”
I arrived in Portales, New Mexico, the land of the scrub brush and awfully high winds, long after sunset. At the Taco Box, I met with Carol’s cousin Darla, her husband Dean, and their kids Randall, Richard, and Michael. After dinner and laughs, I found my way out to the Children’s home on the Bethel Highway, where I unpacked my bag and settled into an RV parked outside Butch and Junie’s duplex.
The next morning I met my new boss, Darwin. He gave me the keys to my work vehicle, a little, light green Ford Ranger. He showed me around the dusty campus. I repaired the five-hundred square foot apartment as quickly as I could. It needed a lot of work: a bathroom sink, new carpet, walls repaired, and fresh paint. It stunk like cat piss. 
The tiny apartment finally ready, now smelling like oil-based paints, I returned to Oklahoma City to reunite with Carol and the kids. Carol’s Dad brought a big blue goose-neck trailer. Cow shit covered floorboards. Dan helped us pack our possessions, drove the trailer to New Mexico, unloaded, and quickly left us there on the high plains. Moving all of our things, I was impressed by how fast we had gone from owning nothing, to having enough to fill Dan’s trailer.

That Christmas, safe at the children’s home, we bought the kids a train set that went around the tree in our little living room. Carol and I thanked God for our relative security. We’d dodged a bullet. I woke up before the kids on Christmas morning. After waiting for as long as I could, I finally turned on the train to wake everybody up. The wind blew hard and curled wisps of frozen snow. I could feel the cold air coming in through our door which opened onto an icy playground.
I got a Christmas letter from my grandma Rosie. The letter was hand-printed on holiday paper, colorful candy canes and gingerbread men printed around the edges. “Your grandpa was mentally ill.” She wrote. “Your Dad is mentally ill. And so are you.” I shook as I sat on our miniature couch, crying. Carol comforted me. I couldn’t believe my grandma. I found no help in her words. My hate for my Dad had turned back on me. During their divorce, as my Mom’s family came to her rescue, they demonized my father, which somehow felt like an attack on me, even though I was often at war with him too.
We tried to fit in as best we could at the New Mexico Christian Children’s Home. But, we were already too suspicious of organized religion. “What good could un-organized religion do for this world?” Rod asked me at one of our Monday morning meetings. He was obviously proud of his question. I had no answer.
We attended the church services which were mandatory for all employees. Our children participated in sadly contrived productions. I mowed the lawn, replaced toilets, and fixed water sprinkler heads that everyone, including myself, constantly ran over with their vehicles. The sun felt heavier on my head than it ever had on the farm in Oklahoma. It pushed down hard into my brain, even through my hat. I dug ditches and giant holes in the ground to replace septic tanks. Joseph loved heavy machinery and I let him ride with me on the backhoe whenever possible. The fine sand penetrated all my exposed orifices. My sinuses locked down, then they opened a bit for a series of sneezes as my eyes tried desperately to flush themselves of allergens. Tears streamed down my face. I watched a tiny cloud in the sky and wondered if it was I who had made it disappear. My politics had shifted and I was angered when George W went to war against Iraq, promising to find weapons of mass destruction. I was swinging to the far left in response to my failed journey to the extreme right.
Trying to make friends, I played my guitar for some of the younger kids at the children’s home. We hit it off with Suzi Love, one of the single-mothers who was seeking refuge at the home. I practiced my Spanish with the other hired help. But, as we became familiar with the workings of the Children’s home, we realized that they were not providing a service that we could get behind. It seemed to be more like a real-estate empire than a non-profit organization. In order to justify their existence, they searched for prospective children to fill rooms. The assistance and shelter they provided to struggling mothers came with too many strings attached, somehow violating those women who were in need. Carol and I had more in common with those who were being ministered to, as opposed to those doing the ministering.
In retrospect, they were ministering to us. They gave us a home when we were in need. They gave me a job. They gave us food and a safe environment for our kids. They were all as kind and as accepting as they knew how to be. It was fifteen years later that I was able to see how precarious a position we were in as a young family and how that time at the NMCC had served as a cushion for my manic-depressive swings that were violently shaking my family.
Every Friday we were with Dean and Darla, watching movies and sharing our life stories. Dean let Darla do most of the talking. They had once owned a music store in downtown Clovis, and now Dean worked at Tarpley’s Music. Darla was going back to school to become a grade school teacher. Married at a young age, they had always struggled just to make ends meet. As Dean tried to make his living as a musician and sound-man, Darla stayed home and raised the kids. Sitting with them in their living room on Friday nights helped us to feel free from the religion of the children’s home. We told them our story of how we had been rejected by our church family and run away from Oklahoma City. They empathized. Dean saw my talent as a musician and he helped me to start teaching at the music store every Saturday morning.


Oasis
separating us—
unwinding our entwined roots—
        patience required…

I visited the local university, hoping to go back to school and finish my music degree. While I was at the administration building I saw a door with a sign that read “Graduate Program.” Carol already had her bachelor’s degree, so I picked up a flyer and brought it home to her. She was elated at the thought of going back to school. I told her that I was exhausted and that I needed help providing for the family. We agreed that the traditional Christian model of man-as-the-sole-provider was not working for us. 
She clarified with me, “You are asking for help, right?” 
“Yes.” I said. “I need help.”
At the ENMU campus we played with our kids in the thick grass, resting on benches under the shade of the trees. We sat by a fountain. The rich green grass and the sounds of the bubbling fountain served as an oasis from the harsh, arid land. Carol held baby Emma and Joseph and Anna ran under the trees as Carol and I agreed that the University seemed like a more suitable place to seek shelter than any church building. She filled out her application, quickly read a book and wrote a paper. She turned it in to the English department, and was quickly accepted as a graduate assistant. She was going to get paid to go to school and teach.

During the course of my Children’s home duty I was setting up tables at the county fairgrounds and I met a man who was tuning a piano. I introduced myself, telling him that I was a musician. He invited me over to his house for a musical jam. 
The highway turned into a dirt road as I followed the directions the piano tuner had given me. Warm lights glowed from the windows of  Ken and Kim’s house, a brown, two story home sitting on a hill. A friendly black and tan German Shepherd curled around my legs and guitar case as I exited my vehicle and walked toward the door. Ken invited me in with a smile and a laugh. Musical instruments lined an entire wall of their living room: violins, mandolins, banjos, a dobro, and several guitars. I smiled, welcomed by the sight. They offered me wine. We drank and played until late that night. They valued my musicianship and my original songs. Ken suggested that I apply for a job teaching at South Plains College in Levelland, Texas where his daughter Anne was attending a commercial music program. 
The next day I made a demo CD for the job at South Plains College. I made a call and sent in my demo. After a trip to Levelland for an audition I got the job. Ken and Kim helped us to find a rent house just down the road from them. In a blue Ford Windstar that my dad gave us. I moved everything we owned from the children’s home to our new house. I lost track of the number of trips it took. Carol was at the university now, teaching and studying. We felt relieved to have finally made our break from the Children’s home.








The Pink House
“Desert in my hand
Grains of long gone stoney face
Extreme in patience”
—Book of the Ageless Ophidian, Chapter 18:v1
    translated by Chogyam Trin Pan

Our new home sat fifty feet from the highway, surrounded by dusty fields, a livestock pen, and a gleaming silver arch-barn. It was constructed of pink bricks. Sloppy grey mortar surrounded replaced windows. A cracking concrete porch spanned the front of the house and Emma spun around in circles wearing a heavy, wet diaper. A giant evergreen bush stood by the road; I crawled inside its cavernous interior with the kids.
Two days a week I drove to Levelland, Texas to teach music. The job boosted my self-confidence. My mom got into her savings and bought me an upright bass and a nice suit to wear to gigs. On a happy trip to Lubbock, I purchased a print of Picasso’s, Three Musicians to celebrate the rebirth of my music (the same print that Cad had in his room when I was a kid). Carol and I alternated days with the kids and homeschooling.
At the university, Carol was a natural at literary theory. Her studies in gender and feminism helped us to put into context our struggles with the stifling gender roles to which we had subjected ourselves. Carol stopped breast feeding, and I got a vasectomy. She was fast becoming the primary breadwinner.
We dug a fire pit in the backyard. Sitting on fabric folding chairs one evening, embers floating into the starry sky, a cat crawled into Carol’s lap and gave birth. The children watched the kittens crown as they emerged into the world, wet and struggling. I found a fully grown tiger salamander, healthy and moist-skinned, crawling in the sand by a tree in the backyard. I kept it in a ten-gallon aquarium and fed it gold fish. 
Although I was disgusted by what I perceived to be the hypocrisy and violent shortcomings of institutionalized religion, I still clung to my faith in God. Sometimes holding on to the possibility that I was still on God’s path, other times overwhelmed by a crushing guilt and self hate, seeing how I had disappointed and hurt the people in my old church family. 
I began to understand that my pain was the result of untouchable injuries. And, it was obvious to me that religion had no cure for my wounds, or for the wounds of so many other hurting misfits. It appeared to me that Christians slapped band-aids on gaping lacerations, expecting the injured to smile and be grateful as we continued to bleed out. I had given everything to know God, only to find myself losing my faith.
A thousand times, I chewed and chewed. Then, a thousand times, I swallowed this putrid mass of self-loathing. It passed down through my esophagus and into my stomach. Each time, I vomited. Sometimes I walked away for a while before returning to feed myself again and again on the masticated mess. 
I had once communed with God, on my knees. But, this practice had transformed into intense self deprecation as I pleaded for God to fix what was wrong with me. Over and over again, I opened the bible, trying to discover what I had once found so comforting in the scriptures, trying to see the truth. I recorded a simple song one night, tracked in wild, layered voices, all asking the question, “What is reality?” I smoked a joint and perched naked on top of the kids swing set one dark night, New Mexico’s stars twinkling overhead, as Carol typed her master’s thesis inside the house. When I wasn’t homeschooling the kids I considered myself a wild man, living on the fringes, out there on that desert highway, like some kind of outlaw.
The E Street band wailed in our living room one night, The Boss prophesying about a river where one might experience sexual healing. It was unusual for Carol and I to lock in on music together like that. For a moment, sitting there in our living room, we were in church again, open to everything, feeling like we were saved. Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans. Starved for purpose, I wanted to invite refugees into our home. Nothing ever became of it.
Christina Campbell, a teenage girl that Carol and I had “discipled” during our days on the farm called us on the phone. She expressed her gratefulness for our presence in her life as a teenager. We talked briefly about the progressions of  life and spirituality. She shared with me a little about her path. She no longer put her faith in Jesus. I asked her to reconsider her choice, trying to convince her that there was a Jesus to know outside organized religion. I’m not sure how much I believed it that day, but Christina had always inspired me to deep felt words. After I had finished my argument for faith, she asked me to consider something now. “Maybe none of it is true.” She said. “And maybe that’s OK. I have listened to you and I appreciate all the love that you and Carol shared with me. Please, just consider that it’s all just a story. A really good story.”

As much as I desired to be a kind father and husband, I lost my temper, towering over my children, making myself as big and scary as possible, screaming at Anna one afternoon with my loudest and most angry bear voice, my out-of-control behavior fueling further disgust in myself. I called myself names in the mirror. I recovered each time by trying to make myself perfect, deep cleaning behind the refrigerator, singing songs with the kids, teaching math lessons. Then, once again, something would touch the deep rage and I would lose control. Dull headaches accompanied by dizzying nausea became a common occurrence. I combated them with large doses of caffeine and tylenol. Never knowing when heartburn would return, I kept Pepto-Bismol in my glove box at all times. I felt good when my guitar was in my hands.
I returned to the music building at the university, knocking on the Jazz director’s door. I told him that I was a guitar player, looking for fellow musicians. He asked me if I could play Jazz chord changes. We sat down in his office and I chum-chummed through the chords to Ellington’s A Train while he played his tenor, the deep sound of Chris’s saxophone resonating sympathetically with my past. I joined the faculty Jazz combo and started getting a reputation around town for being some kind of player and I was eventually hired as an adjunct instructor of music where I taught guitar, bass, string methods, and the History of Rock and Roll.

Christmas came again. We bought the kids a drum set, a pirate ship, a plastic pizza shop, and princess outfits. Carol always hoped for a perfect holiday. I always ruined it.  Everything should have been alright; there was a ham in the oven and rolls sitting on the stove. But, as the kids played happily with their new toys, I walked out into the bright, cold December day. As I staggered aimlessly down the high plains highway, into the cold crosswind from the North, I grasped violently for clues as to what it was that felt so wrong with my life. 
I blamed myself for my sickened state, unable to pull it together, even for a happy holiday. When I could no longer stand to blame myself anymore, I blamed Carol. I blamed the kids. I blamed religion. I blamed the government. I blamed my parents. I blamed pop culture. I blamed show business. I was overwhelmed with self-hate as I saw myself failing. When I could no longer endure the pain that came with that hate, I transferred the blame to other people and my circumstances. My mood swings were quick and violent. 
Three crisp cracks rang out in all directions from the front yard of our pink brick home. The shots were separated by brief moments of peaceful silence. It was early one summer morning. The alfalfa was growing just as it should be in the field. I was surprised by the accuracy of my aim. I shot three cats, our pets, in the head with my single shot .22. Clean hits, all three, right through the brain or cervical spine. I still remember how they fell, instantly, limp lifelessness. I put the cats in plastic bags, tied them up tight, and threw them in the trash can. One of the cats, Sullivan, was a black, long-hair. He was entrusted to us by a woman who made us promise to care for him well. Apparently they were too much work. I don’t understand either.
Music was the only activity that made me truly happy and I longed to be immersed in it. I imagined myself finding a way to travel the country, playing shows. I got a steady jazz gig at the Lubbock club, playing with a few guys from Texas Tech, some of the finest musicians I’d ever met. I continued teaching and taking every gig I could get, trying to make a name for myself and do whatever it was that musicians did to make themselves successful. I was teaching in a commercial music program at South Plains College, but I didn’t have the heart or the head to sustain a successful commercial enterprise. I just wanted what I had always wanted, to get lost in the sounds, so that’s what I practiced, in hopes that some day it would just all work out for me.
Carol bought me an Eric Johnson Stratocaster for valentines day. I promised to be worthy of the instrument, Imagining it as tool that would open doors for my future. “Just enjoy the guitar,” she said. “You don’t have to make it into a big deal like that. It’s just a guitar.” For me, it was never, “just a guitar.”


Seduction
“The wholly consumed—
The ones who burn the Good Book—
Taking us outside…”
Inja

Carol and I bought a house and moved closer to town. It was a boxy pre-fab job with a crooked metal roof. The dirt driveway, rutted and full of rusty nails, the lawn colonized by grass burrs and giant biting ants. The habitation seemed as if it was dropped right in the middle of a sandbox out on the Arch Highway. I laid some tile, and a pressed-wood floor, and we moved in. Our neighbors sold cocaine, and every once in a while, police vehicles rolled in quietly with the rising sun; men jumped out wearing black helmets and bulky bullet-proof vests. We got a new puppy, a little fuzzball of a creature. We named her Abby. I carried her down the road with a sick heart one day, stroking her perfect soft fur, searching for relief.
Most every Friday night we still spent with Dean and Darla. Darla expressed freely her affection for Carol and I. Dean was quiet as the three of us dug deep conversations into the night. Then, Darla told all of us that she was “crunching” on me. I tried to be cool about it, but my heart jumped in my chest. I talked with Darla alone one night. She told me that she had an orgasm while listening to my recorded music. That’s all it took. I was hooked. I was open with Carol about what was going on, and Carol was very understanding. But, it went further. 
I fell in love. Darla’s many moods drew me in. She was flirtatious and fun. She liked to dance. We started talking on the phone. She became a best friend, and an object of desire. 
She drove to our house. I jumped in her car. I reached for her hand. We drove down the Arch highway, discussing our feelings for one another, caressing each other’s fingers. She pulled over. We got out of the car. She stood there, on the road, leaning against her door, staring down at her toes. I wanted to kiss her. I imagined how soft her lips would be in my mouth. I ached.
The next day I called Dean. “We need to talk,” I said. “Can I meet you?” Dean already knew what was going on. There had been no secrets. But, I was hoping that he would draw a line. Yell at me. Tell me to back the fuck off. Punch me in the face. Something. I don’t know why I was depending on Dean to draw the line. But, Darla had done this before, and he was just going to let this thing run its course. We discussed the possibility of swapping wives. “That’s not going to happen,” Dean said.
But, the next Friday night, I went over to Darla’s house, and Dean came over to visit Carol at ours. Dean tried to massage Carol’s shoulders while she was typing at the computer. Carol refused the intimate gesture. Dean was accepting, as usual. I sat at Dean’s house and talked passionately to his wife, as Michael, her youngest son, played video games in the next room. I told her that I loved her, how I wanted to lay down with her, to feel the warmth of her body next to mine. I wanted her to hold me. I wanted to feel that pressure.
I came home that night and told Carol that I wanted to sleep with Darla. “Okay,” Carol said. “You can do that. I won’t even leave you. And, I will always love you. But I do have my limitations.” She went on, “If you sleep with Darla, I won’t be able to share with you the deepest places in my heart anymore. If you do that, I can’t be close to you like I have been in the past. This is my limitation,” she said. “You’re going to lose the deepest places in my heart.”
I didn’t want to lose Carol. In a very quiet way, she had helped me to understand what I was doing. I had hoped that I could have it all, wanting to be in love with two women. But, my honesty, and Carols’ capacity to express her boundaries had given us another chance. I broke off my relationship with Darla, but it would take some time to heal our new wounds. Carol and I never fought more fiercely than during those times. 




The Rucker Brothers
“April shading limbs
music in firm, red-dirt soil
moisture from deep roots”
excerpt from Jack Fellston’s Diary
May 3rd, 1972

For some time now, I had been in contact with my old friend and musical guru, Matt Hope. I had visited him in Oklahoma City the summer before, playing guitar and barbecuing with his roommate Watermelon Slim, a genuine bluesman, and the only Vietnam veteran to have made a protest album while the war was still blowing up, Merry Airbrakes.
I felt that my renewed friendship with Matt was helping me to rediscover the depths of my music. Living room jams with him, back in the nineties, had broadened my capacity for improvisation. Nineteen years old, at a party one night, Matt stuck a guitar in my hand after I’d toked on a joint. He simply said, “Play.” I objected at first, saying that I couldn’t make music while I was high. But, as I strummed that Jimi Hendrix chord and played my blues scales, the power in the sounds intensified exponentially. 
At the peak of my enthusiasm for jazz music, Matt had convinced several of us from Inside Outfluence, Staci, and his sister Amy, to travel to a bluegrass festival in Kansas. At that first acoustic tent-town meeting, my music changed forever. In the celtic sound, I discovered white soul music. They woke me up to a new realm; folk power. I began to recognize value in simplicity, and became focused once again on voice, lyrics, and direction as opposed to complex chord progressions.

As I struggled to disconnect from Darla, Carol and I decided that it might be helpful to find a way to reboot; we called it a “reset button.” In other words, I needed something else to focus on. So, I called Matt and asked him if he would like to make an album. He was all for the idea. Matt had met a woman. He was going to get married. It was the most happy I’d ever heard him. I imagined that this album would be the kick that we both needed to get our musical careers moving.
Once again, I left my family behind, this time traveling in the opposite direction, from New Mexico to Oklahoma City. Dyron Beaty, another old friend from my college days, agreed to let us crash at his place. We assembled our recording studio at his house.
It took us more than a year, and several extended stays in Oklahoma City to complete the album. I visited friends and family when we weren’t recording. I smoked marijuana most every day, recording and editing the music. I felt happy and full of purpose. I worked for Brian Neely again who was building his dream home overlooking a pond. Every time I went, I stayed until I couldn’t stand to be away from Carol and the kids anymore. Each time I was delighted when I actually wanted to come home.
Brian Neely surprised me one day as he expressed his concerns for me. “I just don’t want you to miss out on your chance to go to heaven, brother.” He was worried about my salvation. I didn’t believe in heaven or hell any more. Although almost every song on our album mentioned God, I was no longer a fundamentalist. I  tried to calmly explain to Brian, a man with whom I had once zealously shared my faith, how closed-minded his approach was. I had lost my religion. I was high as I drove North-West on the expressway, talking to my old friend on the phone to whom I had once brought the gospel.
Matt and I decided to name the album after our old teacher from UCO, Lee Rucker. As a tribute to our common musical heritage, we were the Rucker Brothers. We called the album, Brother Jack.
We had a big CD release party, inviting everyone we knew. We filled the Blue Door in Oklahoma City. Johnny Nelson, one of my old bass teachers played the night of music for free. Lot’s of old friends showed up to support us. It was truly a night of celebration and accomplishment. I missed the first few chords, the audience became uncomfortable for a brief moment. I recovered. I was now able to play while I was pretty high.



On the Road
“trash-can-sandwiches
                          the refuse of a sick town
furtive lethargy”
Jack Padiwack, 1957

Having completed the CD and our release party, with a thousand red copies in our hands, we were ready to do something with it. Our old friend David Bowen was on the road with a successful Texas musician, Stoney LaRue. We arranged to meet David in Houston, at a bar, where he was playing a big show with LaRue. 
Matt and I packed our gear in my Blue minivan and headed South. As we were leaving town we stopped to fill up outside of Norman. Wade Inman, the saxophone player who had led me to the Lord, was filling his tank at the pump right next to mine. I told him we were broke, that we were on a mission to spread our music, and we would really appreciate it if he could give us some money. He gave us what he had in his wallet. I think it was about a hundred and twenty bucks. Inside, I was laughing at him. I was so angry at the church that had lied to me—given me a Jesus that didn’t work. I felt like I was really sticking it to the system as he wholeheartedly handed over the money in his wallet. It was poetic, this man handing over his cash. Matt and I drove South as I ranted about the sickness of the American christian church, hopeful for musical success.
Wade’s good will seemed to be a sign from God that we were on the right track (I may not have been a fundamentalist anymore, but I still had a sense for the divine). Seeing that religion had caused me so many problems, I felt empowered in my willingness to take Wade’s money. I had just run a righteous con. It was a little payback for all the misery that religion had caused me. 
After arriving in Houston, we waited outside the bar for the tour bus to arrive. The bus pulled up and we reunited with David Bowen, our old friend. I hadn’t seen him in years. He looked tired and road-worn. I chauffeured one of the roadies to Guitar Center to do some shopping for the band. We came back and met Stoney who had just woke up from a nap.  We joined the band’s continual party. At this point I wasn’t smoking any weed, which kind of made me feel like an outsider, but we all got along pretty well. David seemed to be merely tolerating the situation. There was some obvious tension between him and the rest of the band.
But, after learning that Matt was a professional saxophonist, Stoney invited him to play on stage for the performance that night. Matt’s Sax turned the band’s sound to a Bruce Springsteen and the E-Street band vibe. David played like an animal, a practice that would eventually lead to many playing-related injuries.
We partied with Stoney after the show. Stoney reminded me strangely of Elvis, the way he treated his “momma,” who joined us on the bus for a while that evening; his large room at the very back of the bus was the king’s chambers. There were lots of people on the bus, all of them giddy, waiting for their opportunity to talk to king Stoney. We gave him copies of our album and jammed with him. I played him a few of my original songs. After drinking lots of whiskey and getting stoned out of his mind, Stoney promised us all kinds of help with our musical endeavors, saying that he could fly us wherever we needed to go in his personal airplane. His band had just lost a guitar player, so Stoney, in a drunken stooper, invited Matt to join him on tour as his new guitarist. We were to meet them in Lubbock at their next show with Matt’s guitar rig.
Matt didn’t have a guitar rig, so we went to Guitar Center and I bought him the amplifier of his choice. I put it on my credit card. I also put my Eric Johnson Stratocaster in Matt’s hands, we stopped by my house to say hello and goodbye to my family again, staying one night. The next day I drove Matt to Lubbock where I dropped Matt off with David and Stoney’s entourage. 
Matt toured with Stoney for a couple of weeks. Apparently they didn’t get along too well. Matt left the tour. Stoney owed him some money for his services. I called Stoney asking for the money that he owed Matt. Stoney accused me of being “obtuse” after I told him about our sacrifices to get Matt on the road. “You have no idea what happened out there,” he said to me flatly. “Just pay Matt the money you owe him,” I said. He ended up paying him about half of what he had agreed. I really had no idea what happened out there on road in that party bus. I never asked Matt.
Matt married Mandy. I was a groomsman at their big wedding at quartz mountain. They paid me back for Matt’s guitar rig. Matt and Mandy were divorced in six months.













Back To School
“Migratory path
Returning to our senses
We know the way home”
Songbird Williamson

After our short-lived but intense efforts to promote the Rucker Brothers album, Matt and I fell out of contact with one another. I sank into a depression, watching UFC fights, Jon Stewart, and Bear Grylls on satellite TV, wearing a new sinkhole into the easy-chair my dad had given me. As always, Carol was hard at work, researching and writing for her PhD now, commuting to Lubbock twice a week. I continued to teach at ENMU and was able to pick up Emma from pre-school.
 I continually wavered in my seriousness toward music. I was unhappy as a struggling performer but also unwilling to give myself fully to teaching, Carol suggested that it might be time for a change. She suggested that I go back to school full time and find a career that would be more financially stable. Her request seemed reasonable. We had invested so much into my music over the years, and I still wasn’t happy. Even as I had time to focus specifically on my writing, musicianship, and teaching, I felt that nothing ever really took off for me. It was so difficult for to choose a musical path and stick to it. She was right. I really didn’t know what I wanted. And when I did get what I wanted, it turned out I never really wanted it in the first place. So, I enrolled at ENMU, declaring my major as pre-med with the idea of becoming a medical doctor.
I took out school loans, continued teaching at ENMU, and embraced my new identity as a student wholeheartedly. I took chemistry, physics, and microbiology; enrolling in 19 hours of heavy classes one semester. 
I also began playing music more regularly. This time I was determined that I would not mix music and marijuana. It seemed to me now that The Rucker Brothers project was doomed from the start because of what I was now willing to label as my “drug abuse.” It seemed ridiculous to think that Matt and I would have been able to balance our marijuana and alcohol habits wile managing a music business on the road while at the same time having successful family lives. Matt was already divorced, and I believed that I would be divorced had I pushed that project any further. I was done mixing drugs and music.
Taking a friends advice, I added more cover tunes to my setlist. I was surprised at how much I enjoyed playing them and delighted at the audience response. These were some of the best musical performances of my life. I formed an alliance with a restaurant owner in town and together, we put on some great shows. People were enjoying my music more than ever before. The first band I founded was with two students that I had been teaching for several semesters. I taught myself to play the violin and mandolin. I took breaks from studying course material, strolling around campus, playing my violin, sometimes making new friends. Life was fresh. I was proud of myself for having tried my hand at being a real professional musician. But I was ready for something more.
Carol questioned whether it was necessary for me to become a medical doctor. She asked me, “What is at the heart of your desire to be a doctor?” 
“I want to help people,” I answered.
If I became a physical therapist I could graduate with less debt and in a shorter time. As I was doing my job-shadowing for the Physical Therapist school requirements, I met a PTA (physical Therapist Assistant) who suggested that I investigate PTA programs. “You’ll be in a lot less debt when you get out of school, and your education time will be cut in half,” she said. That all sounded good to me. So, I applied to an online PTA program at San Juan College in Farmington, New Mexico. I was quickly accepted.
I was so happy to be back in school and on a path to provide for my family. I loved getting a syllabus, marking all the important dates in my personal calendar, and being hyper-prepared for all the tests. I lined up all my school books and dedicated myself to studying. I memorized parts of the anatomy book word-for-word with such accuracy that my teachers thought that I either had a photographic memory or that I was cheating. After my first year of studies the program director recognized my efforts with the “Student of the semester” award. I was determined to do this perfectly. I secretly imagined that God was going to heal people through me as a PTA.
My music was also very strong now, and I was becoming a small-town local celebrity. I put on a one-man-show at the University entitled, Getting Back Up. The show contained what I felt were my most inspirational songs about personal recovery—the art of “Getting Back Up.” 
I was gaining such a reputation teaching at the university and performing, that there were many times that I would introduce myself to someone and they would say, “Oh, I know who you are.” Or “Yes, I’ve heard of you, you’re that guitar player.” I often stayed late at my campus office, studying physical therapy and practicing music for my shows. I felt smart. I felt special. Things were going very well. But then, I started to get a lot of headaches that were accompanied by nausea and a foggy mind.
It was difficult to focus on anything when I was having these headaches. I went to the doctor’s office so many times that they ran an MRI. I felt very sick, very often and it was getting in the way of my studies. The headaches were getting in the way of everything. The doctor prescribed Fiorecet, a barbiturate and caffeine cocktail. Those pills made me feel great—unstoppable. Those pills turned a really bad day into a really great day. I consumed large amounts of sugar and caffeine to help relieve the crippling headaches. Although I was unable to recognize it at the time, I was struggling with depression. The caffeine, sugar, and barbiturates were catapulting me high into the sky, and then I would come tumbling down. The chronological details are all fuzzy to me right now, but at some point I broke a promise to myself.



Hope Night

“You say hope is lost
I say that freedom is found
Near the middle ground”
Anonymous Lyrics


On a cold December night, after the girls’ Christmas dance recital (probably one of the many Nutcracker Suitess that we attended), the whole family hurried through the front door to get out of the cold. One of the kids let the dogs in from the back yard. Hope, our big Shepherd mix, accidentally smacked Emma under the chin. I chased Hope around the house, imagining how satisfying it would be to wrap my hands around her neck and strangle her. I wanted to punch her in the face. The children screamed and begged for me to stop. Carol screamed, commanding me to stop, which only heightened my agitated state. I would not be controlled. How dare she! 
Somehow, Carol, seeking refuge from my rage, rounded up all kids and the animals. They retreated into the master bedroom. Attempting to follow them, I approached the door as Carol closed it. The knob would not turn. “That bitch has locked me out!” I thought to myself. I raised my right fist into the air. I was ready to start pounding. I felt shut out. I felt powerless. I felt misunderstood. I burned with frustration. I stopped my fists only inches from the door and began questioning myself. I realized that I was just two pounding-fists away from a domestic call—the police knocking on our door at nine-thirty at night. Now, I wonder what it was like for them in there. Were the kids sitting on the bed or were they standing? Were they all facing the door? Was Carol readying to defend herself, the kids, and the animals?
The next day I called Nina, Carol’s colleague at the college and a trusted family friend. I had heard her talk highly about a local counselor. Nina gave me Penny’s number and for the first time in my adult life I started seeking help for my mental health. 
I remembered that Christmas card that my grandmother had sent me eight years before, the one with the candy canes and ginger-bread men. Maybe she was right. Maybe I did have a problem. I felt relief in that first step, reaching out for help. My life had become unmanageable. I needed assistance.



Penny

“A Spectrum of light, all colours of salvation shine from our closets!”
Fhebruary Johnstone, 1962

Acting on my friends’ recommendation, I began seeing a therapist regularly. Penny. Although I liked her right away, I was suspicious of her. I loved to talk, and she was a good listener. There was nothing I could say that could scare her. All of my weirdness, I let it out for her to see. Slowly, I began to believe that she was not just another person who was going to try and fix me. Week after week, without judgment, Penny listened in to my self-loathing and shame. Finally, I believed she was not going to judge me, or tell me that I was full of shit (although she did do that later on, when my trust was greater). 
Penny was one of the kindest people I had ever met. In the counseling room she practiced what she called unconditional-positive-regard. This was a radical concept to me. Unconditional positive regard. Unconditional? I couldn’t believe this. For two weeks I was convinced again that she was trying to trick me. “There is no such thing as unconditional positive regard!” I thought. “She will end up rejecting me. I know it.” But, as I revealed to her all of my fears, she practiced this unconditional-positive-regard right in front of my eyes. No matter what I said, I was unable to convince her that I was a terrible monster.
Penny taught me about “maitri,”which is a sanskrit word meaning, “unconditional friendship for one’s self.” My eyes were opened to the compassion in the teachings of Buddhism. I discovered Vipassna meditation, the simple practice of anchoring one’s self to the present moment through physical sensations, particularly the breath. I became a student of my own being, observing the busy-ness of my brain, practicing unconditional-positive-regard for myself.  
Penny introduced me to Ellis’s Eleven Irrational Beliefs, helping me to understand how habitual thought patterns fed my destructive emotions. I became aware of irrational feedback loops. She helped me to recognize that I was “awfulizing” situations, imagining that a situation is as bad as it could possibly be. She showed me how to observe my own thinking and to truly become grateful for the pain in my life. “Who would you be without your pain?” She would often ask. She never demanded anything from me. She never degraded me. She never tried to cast any demons out of me or change me. My eyes began to open to my own self worth.
The only time Penny became assertive was when I denigrated myself. When I became aggressive and angry toward myself, she would simply help me to realize what I was doing. I started to get it. 
I made peace with my sexual confusion, which was a deep root of my self-loathing. She explained that there is a vast array of human sexual experience, and that there is a spectrum on which we may find our sexual preferences at any one particular moment. This was a truly freeing message that had been unavailable to me as I grew up in the bible belt, under the tutelage of my homophobic father. This new piece of information helped me to normalize some of my most shameful experiences. I was not alone.
I began smoking marijuana more frequently, often times before our therapy sessions. I felt more capable of opening up when I was high. When I spoke with Penny about my marijuana usage she asked me this question: “Is it helping?” I believe I now understand. With this question, she was withholding her judgment from me. She was allowing me to make my own decisions for my life. “Is it helping?” “Is it working for your life?” These are questions that I still ask myself frequently instead of relying on the “shoulds” or the “should-nots.”
I was becoming addicted to unconditional-positive-regard. 
 During one memorable session, after a particularly self denigrating rant, Penny said to me, “Travis. you are one of the top five self bludgeoners I have ever met.” I was shocked. Penny was a professional counselor, and had been for a number of years. I was beginning to comprehend how serious the issue of self-abuse was in my life. 
There were times when I rocked in the corner of the bathroom, hit my head against the wall, and smacked myself on the face in order to try to gain control. Now, with these alternatives that Penny was offering were beginning to seem more attractive. I slowly began to become aware of how frequently I was attacking myself. However, Penny told me that things might get worse before they got better. She was right.
Unaware that I was filled with self-pity, I swung harshly between blaming myself and blaming others. I was  hyper-aware of oppressive institutions and systems. I tried to protect the people I loved from my hatred by turning it inward on myself, but it eventually erupted onto someone or something else. Carol, the kids, the animals, music partners, friends, business associates. I ranted endlessly about the oppressive nature of unchecked, unjust governments, institutionalized religion, the military, and the Christian church. All the self-hate had to find its way out. I could not contain it. It was destroying me and all my most valuable relationships.
The animals always took the brunt of my abuse. It took two years for our two little dachshunds to learn to piss outside. In my anger, I picked up little Rosie and shook her. She literally shit herself with fear. I was truly out of control. I had never hurt an animal out of anger before this time in my life. It was after one of these angry events that my oldest daughter, Anna, crossed her arms and set her stance in front of me. She appeared unafraid. “You can’t hurt the dogs, dad!” She said with a calm authority. “You can’t. You just can’t hurt the dogs like this anymore! ” I knew she was right. I was able to hear. Then she said to me, “Dogs are people too, dad.” I am so grateful to my children who continue to teach me so much.
Our shepherd, Hope, was a leaper. She jumped over our chain link fence with ease. We came home one day to find a beautiful, black, dead puppy in our backyard. Apparently Hope had gone hunting. Next, we came home and Rosie, one of our little dachshunds was dead. She had bloody puncture wounds in several places on her body. I loved hope. I really believe I did. Together, we jogged our three mile route one last time. Out on the Arch highway, between the first and second curves from town, she bounded through the tall weeds, chased the jackrabbits through the scrub brush fields, often keeping an eye on me to make sure that I was safe. She was a shepherd after all. I told the kids that I had found a nice farm for Hope to live on, then I took her to the kill shelter. It was all I knew to do to keep the other animals safe. Hope was dead.



Bad Pizza
“Harsh indegestion
Burning of the heart and mind
Toxic, rotten meals”
The Tao of Italian Cooking
Master Sah-Saj

After the Rucker Brothers project, I promised myself that I would never use marijuana again to help me achieve musical satisfaction. However, I was only committed to my sobriety in that narrow respect. In spite of my therapy sessions with Penny, I was often depressed or angry when I was not smoking marijuana. I told myself that I had “just enough musical talent to make myself miserable.” I felt overlooked, under-appreciated, and suspicious of those who achieved success in a dysfunctional and dying world.
Due to my experiences with Penny in the counseling room, I became acutely aware of all this internal suffering. Where before I was not consciously aware of my internal sufferings, I was beginning to see what was going on in my heart and in my head. I had always been a somewhat sensitive person, now I was using that sensitivity to examine my thoughts and emotions more objectively. I became cognizant that my sensitivity was not always working to my advantage. My resentments began to overwhelm me. As a younger man I had vowed to live a life of forgiveness with Christ as my model, but I was far from that ideal now. I wanted to be a loving person, but when I lost control, that desire did not matter. Those whom I loved the most were the ones who suffered greatest.
I was unwilling, or maybe unable, to deal with my pain. I was willing to recognize that I had a problem, a mental illness perhaps. So,I decided to medicate. Marijuana was my medicine of choice. I was aware of the decision I was making. It was intentional. My pain had become unmanageable and I wanted medication to cope with life.
Self medication was not a new habit. I had been medicating myself for years with one thing or another. Music was my first medication. It delivered me from the discomforts of my world in my youth. I could disappear into the creative process. In fact, the more I practiced the more rewards I received. The neck of the guitar provided for me a reliable grid of patterns that never changed. The structures and patterns I found in music were a stark contrast to the instabilities that I experienced at home. 
As a child my father was very unpredictable, our lives governed by his mood swings. In retrospect, I can see that he was suffering. He tried to help himself feel big by making others feel small. He used physical intimidation, manipulation, and emotional abuse to control us. It was all he knew. Years later I would learn that his hate for homosexual men came from his own fears. He had similar experiences to mine as a young man. 
My father was a suffering human being. He did not know who he was. He was trying to behave like a man, but he had no role models to help him. Therefore he tried to pass down to me and my brother a mask of masculinity that had been crafted by actors and artists—The toughness of John Wayne—The cool of James Dean and Elvis Presley—The energy and hilarity of Jim Belushi and Robin Williams—The cutting sarcasm of George Carlin. My dad could be very fun to be around, but when his glass house was shattered, our lives were broken too. I felt broken. I finally began to consider the possibility that I had grown up in an abusive home. I did want to hold my father’s past against him. In fact, I had forgiven him many times throughout my adult life. But, I felt that I needed to understand where I came from so that I could deal with reality and accept myself for who I was.
Penny asked me a very important question that I believe I will never forget: “What percentage of your life is controlled by your father’s voice?” I sat for a moment, surprised by the question, and even more surprised by my answer. “Eighty-five percent,” I said. The more I thought about it over the next weeks and months, the more I believed my answer was true. Yes, I had a problem. I was allowing memories of my father’s voice to shape and control my life. I had used those memories of my father’s angry voice as a model for the way I talked to myself. In my relationship with my dad, I began to draw some boundaries. Although I made many mistakes in the process, I believe that I was doing the best I could to find my own recovery and help myself to heal from my deepest wounds. It would still take years of practice and often frightening inner exploration to begin to experience love for myself.

The hallucinogenic properties of THC were very powerful for me. The first time I smoked, I was fourteen. The world seemed to be starting over every three to five seconds. I could barely keep track of where I was. It was one of the scariest things that had ever happened to me. I said strange things to my dad on the way home from the skating rink. I sat in the back seat with my friends, scared to death that I would get busted. 
When I smoked in college with my friends I experienced visual distortions, strong paranoia, and hallucinations. I looked in the mirror and my body appeared wavy. I felt like my head was twice as big as it actually was, and there was a distance of a thousand feet from my head to toes. I got so paranoid once, I thought that a highly intelligent insect had crawled into my pants. I captured the insect in my denim jeans. I jumped out of the car and took my pants off while trying to keep the little guy contained. My mouth got so dry that I imagined my tongue was a tenth of the size it was. I thought that my tongue would shrivel up, that I would dry up and die. I was so thirsty I looked for a puddle in the road to drink from. 
My friends laughed and doubted my claims that marijuana effected me so intensely. When they smoked they often just wanted to “chill” and listen to music, lounging on the couch, lights turned down low. When I smoked I was filled with creative energy. I could only listen to music for a few minutes, then I would start talking incessantly. I didn’t want to listen. I wanted to play, or talk, or move around. My friends tried to be patient with me. They tried to help me understand I was over-thinking things, “over analyzing,” as my friend Amy would say.

Now, in my adult life, I began smoking pot more frequently—integrating it into my everyday activities. I began counting the days-in-a-row that I had smoked. I lost my balance, stumbling through the doorway of the house one night after I had smoked eleven days straight. I was concerned with the unusual loss of balance, but I was also very happy. The marijuana helped me to feel so much better, alleviating my headaches and depression. I slept better than I ever had. I became more physically active—riding my bicycle the 5 miles to and from my teaching gig at ENMU. 
One hot summer day I pedaled my bicycle as fast as I could. Arriving at the house, I was elated to see the kids in the swimming pool, one of those deep ones that they sell at your local walmart store. I ditched my bike and ran toward the children’s oasis.  I did a front flip over the side and into the cool blue-tinted water. The crisp wetness rushed to meet me, filling my heart with joy that I had not known for years. I was reborn in this front-yard-baptism. From under the surface I could hear the muted laughter and cheers from the children. I felt alive—delivered from my prior state of depression. 
My self confidence soared when I was high. I felt like I was the person I was “meant to be.” I felt that I was my authentic self.  I continued my practice of self-acceptance and I adored my beloved herb that was helping me to achieve my spiritual goals. 
I made friends with a very charismatic, kind, compassionate, and intelligent Rastafarian man named 7, who helped me to understand my beautiful green leaf as a part of a reasonable and spirit filled way of life. I was able to pray. God seemed real to me. I stayed up late into the night recording music, burning incense, and enjoying my own presence. I felt that I had arrived—that I had finally found what had been missing. I wrote the following song lyrics:

“There’s a beautiful green leaf that grows upon the earth
It helps me to sing and encourages mirth
But The Man says “no” and there’s a reason why…
He doesn’t want us to hear what we can hear when we are high

You can drive your car to the bar
But God forbid you drink and drive
Oh God, it feels good to be alive”

I was fourteen the first time I had unlimited access to alcohol. I drank so much Vodka that I passed out on a waterbed. I woke up laying in my own vomit. I stumbled around to find the bathroom. I told Aaron’s mother that I had eaten some bad pizza…Bad Pizza…Hey, that sounds like a good name for a band.

Have I mentioned that I have a tendency to overdo things? 



















A Little Therapy

“My gaze, inward now—sensing all my soulishness—this humble body.”
Lama Princeton Heat
Aging Imperfectly


The timeline of all of this is a bit hazy, but in December of 2011 I graduated from the Physical Therapist Assistant program. I managed to stay sober through most of school and my clinicals. I was only smoking sporadically now. I made sure that I had a good thirty days clean so that I could pass the piss-test for my first job. I had a strong desire to finish school, and the possibility of being disqualified had scared me straight, contributing to a strong streak of sobriety. I was never high at work during my first two jobs as a PTA. Nor do I remember being paranoid that I might get drug tested, so maybe I was totally clean. I had quite a few bouts-with-sobriety during those years, some lasting for days, some for weeks, some for months. However, I finally gave myself completely to my marvelous herb.
I tried to limit myself, but I always seemed to end up smoking most every day, often times while dreaming of the day that I would once again be able to function sober. I was often afraid of getting busted. Especially because I was a professional healthcare worker. I wanted to be legal, so I scheduled a visit with a psychiatrist in Albuquerque who diagnosed me with PTSD. I got my medical cannibis card, but I was still scared of the drug test, because the card did not make it legal for me to be high at work, or to drive a car, or go to work.
 For approximately three years I smoked like this, at least three times a day, even more when I stayed up late into the night playing music.  I would stop smoking for short periods of time, maybe a couple of days, a week or two. But, I was becoming more and more dependent on THC to provide for me what I could not provide for myself—happiness. I went to work. I drove. I cooked dinner. I made love. I went to parties. I laughed. I cried. I drank alcohol when I wanted to take the edge off of the high. I played music. I practiced music. I cooked dinner etc. Being high became my normal. I had judged others for this behavior in the past. Now this was me.

My journey into the healthcare system was enlightening. I learned how to care for others, something that my selfishness always prevented me from doing very well (and honestly, it still often does). Often times, working with someone who needed help gave me just what I needed to get out of my own head. In fact, my job insisted that I get out of my own head—that I remain concerned for the needs of others. I have learned the importance of creating a safe environment where everyone has an opportunity to heal. I am not blind to the irony that many people may not have felt safe if they knew that I was high. I learned to bypass political and religious differences when those issues might have been problematic in my relationship with a client. I began learning all these very useful skills while I was high at work.
So, I was living a dual life. On one hand I was trying to be a professional, doing part-time physical therapy and teaching at the University. On the other hand I was a pot-smoking musician/artist. I was making a breakthrough in my capacity to love myself, but at the same time, I was about to bare the heavy weight of all the hate and judgment that was still in control of my life, just under the surface. 
I held two professional jobs. I taught music at the University and I was a part time Physical Therapist Assistant. I was getting high most every day and night, staying up late recording music. I was always wound up at work, facing my paranoia and fears of getting caught on the job (What if someone smelled me? I carried toothpaste and mouthwash in my vehicle at all times!). I was incapable of continuing my spiritual experience if I wasn’t high. I tried, but I couldn’t make it work. I felt that I was becoming enlightened as I was entering the darkest periods of my life. In fact, I was actually learning to use some of the tools that I still employ on a daily basis for my recovery, but I was also spinning helplessly out of control. 



Hamstrung

“It’s a long way down
A long way to the bottom
There’s no stopping now”




During my first year in physical therapy, I worked in two nursing homes. It was very difficult for me. It seemed that hardly anyone really wanted to be there (I’m talking about the old folks and the residents). The looming death—dementia—adults wearing diapers—the smell of shit—low quality food—wheelchairs—the suffering of the impoverished elderly—it took its toll on me. I was accustomed to hiding from the reality of decay and death, not facing it every day. It seems that the nursing homes are often the last stop for the less fortunate—those with no other place to go. I did the best I could and I met a lot of admirable people—people who were making the best of their situation. 
I have a lot of respect for those folks who are able to work or live in Skilled Nursing Facility for years and keep a positive attitude. But, I am currently not one of those people. I was frustrated by the system (as usual)—the way the rehab department seemed to be milking the residents for their medicare money—the way the employees who are responsible for the most intimate of hygienic care were earning just above minimum wage. In one of these facilities  there was a culture of anger and resentment toward the patients. While I was there, they came under the scrutiny of the state. I was just a new guy, trying to figure out what the hell I was supposed to be doing. There was just a lot of shit to deal with, both literally and figuratively. I stepped in shit. I changed a few diapers, I played some music for some folks. There was a lot to learn about life there. But, it was also exhausting.
 In need of a change of pace, I applied for a job at the local hospital in Portales. It was a pay cut, but I was happy with the move. I was there for less than a year before my trouble began. I now smoked marijuana before I went to work in the morning—and during lunch—and after I got off work. It helped me to feel creative and happy in the work environment. I was more engaged with my clients than I had ever been. I was being mentored by some really great physical therapists who believed in me. But, I now felt that I needed marijuana during my work day to do physical therapy. I needed marijuana to instruct guitar students. I needed marijuana to teach my History of Rock and Roll class. I needed marijuana to perform music. I needed it to practice music. I needed it when I traveled. I needed it when I stayed home. I needed it before I went to the kids events. I needed it during the kids events. I needed it afterwards—I think you get the point. 
While I was at Roosevelt General, a female client that I knew quite well informed me that my boss had made some very inappropriate comments to her while they were alone in one of the treatment rooms. I became disgusted and angry. I overreacted. I definitely did not handle it as well as I could have, which was probably due to the fact that all my emotions were heightened when I was high. 
I felt unable to do anything about the inappropriate behavior of my boss because I was high at work. As I began planning to blow the whistle on my boss, I realized that I was in a culpable position as well. What if my boss knew that I was high? What if everyone knew that I was high? What if I was found out? I had no moral high-ground (actually my ground was super high!). I became overwhelmed with paranoia. My drug addiction was preventing me from being able to respond to my situation appropriately. I was unable to be around my boss anymore. I was overwhelmed by my situation and my negative emotions. This would not be the last time.
One afternoon, My coworker looked into my eyes after I came back from lunch. “Hey buddy, you’re eyes look pretty bloodshot,” he said, “Did you go home and have yourself a good time today?” I responded in kind. “Well, your eyes look pretty red too. What’s the problem?” I said. 
It was early evening. The sun had dropped behind the houses and I was enjoying a walks after I had hit my pipe. A young man drove by in his pickup truck and yelled at me, “I love to smoke marijuana every day!” His friends cheered. They laughed at me. How did he know? Did the whole town know that I was a pothead? My paranoia was out of control, and now I had a legitimate reason to be paranoid. When toking on my little purple pipe didn’t make life seem great, it made it seem a lot worse, but I kept at it. I came to expect the fear. I told myself it was therapeutic, that this was a process of facing my insecurities. I felt that I could rely on my fear. I knew it was coming nearly every time I smoked.
During a work meeting my boss and I got into an argument. He walked over to me briskly, stopping just inches from my face. He reprimanded me in front of my fellow employees. He was so close I thought I could feel the warmth and moisture of his breath. After that, he stopped assigning me the clients I needed to earn a decent paycheck. Finally, with fear and trembling, I went to HR to register a complaint about his inappropriate behaviors. As I sat across the desk from the head of Human Resources, I wondered if she knew I was high. HR did not do much to help the situation. It all became too much for me to handle. I emptied my office of my belongings and walked out, stopping only briefly to notify my boss that I was leaving. I had another job lined up.



I am God

“There is no “astray”
We are always on the path… 
Moving to center”
D. Failstaff, 2012

After quitting my job at the hospital, I briefly worked for a home healthcare agency, visiting folks that needed care but who were unable to leave their homes. I drove down the city street, the window of my PT cruiser just cracked an inch, waiting for a moment when it felt safe to take a drag from my little purple one-hitter. This cute little pipe had been a gift from a friend. I stored it tidily in a rectangular red and yellow playing-card tin. Taking my hands off the wheel, driving the vehicle with my knees and inner thighs, I lit the tip of the purple pipe with my blue “Don’t Worry, Be Happy” lighter. I inhaled. I held my breath, tightening my chest cavity to push as much THC into my lung tissue as possible.
It occurred to me that if there was a God, He was of man’s creation—and wouldn’t that mean that man was really the only God? And if man is God that means that I am God. “I am God,” I told myself. I was breaking free of the constraints of religion. I was pushing the bounds of what I thought was right and wrong. Every day I practiced to accept myself for who I was. I felt that I was some kind of misfit outlaw, unable to find contentedness living in an unjust world. I accepted myself as someone who had to smoke marijuana most every day to feel happy. Every day I encountered my own hypocrisy—my own arrogance—my own confusion—pride—my own jealousy and anger—my own resentment and unforgivness.
I reasoned that I had given God a chance to be a part of my life long ago. In fact, Carol and I had sold all our earthly possessions for the opportunity to be His servant. Apparently not much had come of all that. In fact, I felt like I was a fool for ever speaking in tongues and prophesying—for praying—for dancing and singing—for crying—for believing—“For God’s sake stop that,” I said to myself. “I am God.” 
I was now without anticipation of heaven, or fear of hell. It seemed to me that I had sought God with my whole heart, only to discover that my encounter with the divine had been psychological in nature. I questioned whether there was any spirit at all. I doubted that I had an individual soul—a unique consciousness that would live forever in some invisible realm. I felt foolish for ever subscribing to such insanity.

The memory of my church family in Edmond, Oklahoma haunted me. Resentment and anger festered deep inside my unconscious mind. I believed that they were a simple, uninformed group of fearful and angry people, hungry for the power of their great-god-of-the-bible-belt. I was ashamed and angry that I fell for their brand of religion. They had tricked me and I would always remember that.
”There is no God that we have not created.” I said to myself as the smoke was sucked out the small crack I had made in the window. Stopping my car a mile from my destination, I placed my little purple pipe and the lighter back inside their home. I brushed my teeth, gargled mouth wash, and allowed myself to settle in to my little buzz and the satisfaction that I was no longer bound by the rules of archaic myths. I was a freethinker. 
I was and atheist/humanist now, but still agnostic on really bad days. I had survived my journey to the far right and come back a wiser man. I voted for Bush in 2000, and again in 2004, believing he was “God’s man for the job.” Now I swung to the militant left-side of the spectrum, harboring resentment and anger for the all the power structures and hierarchical systems that people had created and then justified with god, religion, and money—believing themselves to have God’s blessings. I felt alienated living in a small New Mexico county that voted red every election. I was disgusted with the ignorance and lack of caring that those on the right seemed to embody.
It was over ten years ago now that I had been a police officer. I wrote a ticket to a grocery store sacker in the parking lot at a high end market in Nichols Hills. He was getting high on his break much like me now, sitting in my PT cruiser between home-health-care calls. Some of the old man’s teeth were missing and the ones that were left were all shades of yellow and brown. As he raised his pipe to his lips I knocked on his window, scaring the shit out of him, catching him in the act. He hesitantly opened the door, I took him from his car, confiscating his dug-out and his one hitter, which was empty. He had been taking his last hit. I knew what that was like now to come to the end of a bag of weed. It was like saying goodbye to an old friend. As I arrested this old man, the sensation for me was much like catching my first fish. It was exhilarating. He was in my custody. He had broken the law and now he was on my hook. An arrest—a very high level of control over another human being. A catch and release. But, for what? 
I took his paraphernalia, placed it in a ziplock bag, tagged it, and filed it in evidence, which was really just an old array of small, ancient gym lockers that the Nichols Hills school had replaced years ago, generously donating them to the PD. Merry Christmas, old man, from Nichols Hills finest. Regretful sarcasm. That old man lost his one hitter, his job, and any christmas money he might have had.

Looking around for any police cars, I stowed my tin under the passenger seat, glancing quickly at the sketch of a map, I slipped the cruiser’s gear-shift into drive. A couple of minutes later, I pulled up to the curb and gathered my physical therapy supplies—rubber exercise bands, a sphygmomanometer (fancy word for blood pressure cuff), oxygen sensor, goniometer, gait belt, and whatever else I carried in that little black bag. I rang the doorbell. Looking at my reflection in the storm door, I tried to determine whether or not my eyes looked glassy.


Tiger, Tiger, Strawberry

“I recognize fear. How do I treat myself now? Gentle, like a child.”
                   Eli’s book of Karma

The home-healthcare gig did not work out. My boss promised me plenty of work but I never had more than three clients in a single day. So, when I was contacted by a man in Roswell with a job offer, I was ready. The hourly wage was great, and he paid for travel. The job was two days a week but I would make more than I was currently earning. My goal was to pay for my music habit by working in physical therapy, and this new job appeared to be a means to that end. My boss, Rick had plans to open up a clinic in Portales. He promised me that I could work there once it was up and running.
Every Tuesday and Thursday morning I left Portales at 8am. I looked forward to the hour-and-a-half drive with my purple pipe and my tin full of medical marijuana. My little car had no cruise control, so I knew I had to be careful not to exceed the speed limit. I was confident in my ability to stay cool if I got pulled over, and I had my medical cannibis card, but I did not want any unnecessary trouble. I felt that it was safest to smoke while driving. I knew from experience as a police officer that a parked car made for a vulnerable driver.
My thoughts raced as I drove down the road. I called it my “driving meditation”. I had so much time to think and process the paranoia that I experienced when I smoked. I used a voice recorder to capture all my great ideas. I preferred the racing thoughts and paranoia to the drudgery of sobriety. Life was so fucking boring without pot—boring and painful. I may have been scared a lot, but I was not in pain. I was scared, but I was enjoying life. I was making peace with my fears—making friends with my demons as opposed to trying to cast them out as I had already tried to do. For the first time in my life I had a practice of self-compassion. I was recognizing when I was beating myself up, and my drug usage was a great place to begin giving myself a break.  
Every day I prepared a nice meal of crisp vegetables, rice, and whatever leftovers we had in the fridge. My lunch was a little care package that I made for myself. When I opened my little lunch chest it reminded me of my burgeoning love for myself, and I had proof of that love in the tangible form of a thoughtfully prepared meal. Sitting on a stone bench in a sunken garden I unpacked my noon-time meal of fresh fruits, vegetables, and a small portion of teriyaki chicken that Carol had cooked the night before. I focused on each individual bite—the joy and nourishment that it brought to my life. After my meal I walked the sidewalk through the large park, enjoying the intensity of my noon-time buzz. I stopped occasionally to hug a tree or sit in the shady grass, in deep, busy-minded meditations. The good days were like this.
I opened my Pema Chodron reader. Today’s lesson was about a woman who was running in the jungle. She was trying to escape several tigers who were chasing her. When she came to a cliff she began climbing down on a vine. As she shimmied down the vine, she could hear the tigers growling above her.  When shel looked down, she saw now that there were more tigers below her. Tigers above. Tigers below. Then she noticed that there was a little family of mice gnawing on the vine from where she had descended. As she desperately clung to the vine on the side of the cliff, she noticed that there was a single little strawberry growing there. She took several deep breaths and decided to just enjoy the strawberry.
That afternoon, during my high energy afternoon of therapy, I reached down to feel for my wallet in the right-leg pocket of my khaki cargo-pants. It was not there. That meant that I had to make the hour-and-a-half trip home without my driver’s license or my medical marijuana card. As my work day ended I dreaded the trip home, transporting my marijuana on the highway without my cannibis card. That is why I got the card in the first place. Although the card did not make it legal to smoke marijuana while driving, it did make it legal to transport. I always figured that if I got pulled over I could fake the “sober” thing and, if for some reason they searched my car and found my pot, I would just tell them I was merely transporting it.
It was my habit to smoke my one-hitter as soon as I got on the open highway, just East of Roswell. I hit my pipe, holding my breath to get the full hallucinatory effect. I continued down the road busying myself with singing and talking into my recorder. Trying to capture all of the profound thoughts that seemed to come so easily when I was medicated. Then, on the distant horizon I was startled to see lights-blue and red flashing lights, just 2 or three miles away. I checked my speed. Slowing down just a bit, I gave my focus to staying between the white painted lines. I wondered how high I really was. I started to panic.
As I got closer, I realized that it was a roadblock—a sobriety check point. The highway patrol had placed cones that narrowed my travel to one lane.  As I entered the bright-orange corridor, a large police SUV pulled in behind me. I slowed down further, my eyes felt like large balls inside my skull. My mouth was dried out to the extent that I wondered if I would be able to speak to the officers without sounding like I was drunk. Then I remembered the story. Tiger. Tiger. Strawberry. I decided to enjoy a deep breath—a few sweet breaths that could very well be my last ones for a little while. I monitored the police SUV in my rearview mirror as I approached the flashing lights. I was surprised to see a smoking grill where there was an officer who appeared to be cooking some burgers and hot-dogs. It kind of looked like they were on a camping trip. 
My mind snapped back to reality. “Tiger. Tiger. Strawberry,” I said to myself. My tongue, once again, feeling like a shriveled raisin in my mouth. I slowed down further. The SUV was just twenty feet from my bumper now. I could see the officers ahead, standing just to the left of the cones. I rolled down my window. I could see the officers now. They stood stolidly, muscled arms crossed across their kevlar chests. My vehicle was at a crawl now. “Tiger. Tiger. Strawberry.” I did not say it out loud, but I could see the tigers vividly. I tasted the strawberry one last time before I came to my face to face with the highway patrolmen. “One last, joyful breath of freedom. Acceptance,” I thought to myself.
I gave the large men my full attention as I was bringing my little, cream-colored PT cruiser to a stop. I looked at one of them squarely in the eyes. Before I stopped he simply raised one of his hands in the air. He continued to talk casually with his partner as he waved me on. Unwilling to accept my good fortune just yet, I placed my foot on the accelerator lightly, and gradually gained speed as I cleared the funnel of cones. As I reached cruising speed, I began the accept the gift I had been given.










Blue Paper Pajamas

“The Blackwater Draw—
Ten-thousand years of being—
Buried mammoth bones”
Paleo Dharma

Me and a couple of friends and I started a band. We called ourselves the Blackwater Draw Boys. Roger was an incredibly talented harmonica player, and on-air radio personality. Jon was the heart of our trio,  the reason for its birth, and a good guitar player too. Our trio grew to a quintet, including Neil on drums, Ed on bass, and Rich on the tenor sax. Our band had a little following. We made some T-shirts and bumper stickers, selling only about a dozen of each. But, the friendships we had, music we made, and the attention we received was very rewarding.  
I never played music anymore unless I was high, habit fully integrated into my life. I had completely broken the promise I had made to myself. My mental health began to decline. I felt like Bilbo Baggins in the Fellowhip of the Ring when he said, “I feel thin, sort of stretched, like butter scraped over too much bread.” I was working two days a week at physical therapy while continuing to teach music at the college. I dreaded going to Roswell. I felt too exposed in the clinic. my emotions to get out of control. My paranoia was increasing. I kept telling myself that I loved the fear, but it wasn’t the truth. Smoking pot was now a compulsion. I knew it wasn’t helping me anymore, but I also couldn’t stop because I was even more miserable now when I was sober. I was trapped in another “Tiger. Tiger. Strawberry” situation, but this time I couldn’t find my way through the cones. I was swerving, unable to straighten my wheel. It seemed that I had already consumed the strawberry. 
As I was leaving for work one Tuesday morning, I started shaking and crying. I felt dread like I had never felt before. I wanted to die. My crying turned into uncontrollable sobbing. My eyes filled with so many tears that I could not see the road. I was sobbing too hard to drive. I finally pulled over in Elida and called Carol. I that I was thinking about killing myself. Carol suggested that I call Penny. Penny told me to go to a hospital. I objected. I had Carol call my workplace and tell them I was sick and I drove back to Portales.

Earlier that morning I had googled “how to tie a noose.” With a short piece of sturdy rope, I tied the constricting knot. I put the noose around my neck just to see how it worked. I tightened it, just to see how it felt. As the oxygenated blood was briefly deprived from my brain I felt a comforting rush of relief. I felt no pain. The noise in my mind ceased. With fear in my heart from what I had just experienced, I loosened the knot from my neck, hopped in the car, and started my drive to work. I was wearing a red polo t-shirt.

Later that day, as I was speaking with Carol in our bedroom, I sensed a change in our relationship. It is possible that the change was one that had been happening for a long time, and that I was just now noticing it. It seemed that she was now more my caretaker than my wife. She gave me two options. I remember that she wrote them on a notecard: option 

#1. Go back to work.
#2. Go to the hospital. 

She seemed surprised her when I chose option number two.

After some calls to our insurance company, Carol we decided that we should drive to Santa Fe. I texted my best friends at the time to let them know what was going on. I hoped that I was at the beginning on a path to recovery as I smoked my noontime one-hitter on the way to the hospital. 
When we arrived at the ER in Santa Fe, the television was blaring the theme song of COPS and somebody’s  house got raided by some guys in thick kevlar vests. As Carol, now my caretaker, went to check me in, intentionally sat in a spot where there was a column between me and the television. I waited, trying to focus on my breath, objectively observing this surreal moment.
After a brief interview, the hospital staff showed Carol and I to a small, open area, a little inlet that gave access to the bathroom. There was a soft rolling table waiting for me there. They handed a square, thin, blue square of folded material and said, “Put this on.” I went to the bathroom and unfolded the blue square. I put on the blue, paper pajamas, keeping only my black socks and underwear. They took the rest of my clothes from me. Carol and I sat and waited for someone to see us. I curled up in a ball and put my head in Carol’s lap. I broke down crying again, overcome by a wave of pain and grief, grateful that I was about to get the help that I needed.   
At dinner time, they brought me a plate of fish with some green beans and tartar sauce on the side. Eventually another woman came to interview me again. She asked me the same questions that the first woman had. She seemed to want me to tell her that I had a plan to kill myself. I told her that I didn’t think I had a plan. I felt myself stiffen. I would not say the words that I could plainly see that she needed me toe say. I told her my story several times, that I had tied a noose around my neck, tightened it, it felt really good, I got really scared, and then I broke down. I told her that my therapist had told me to come to the hospital. Apparently that story was not enough to get me admitted to the hospital. She told me that I should see a therapist. I told her that I had a therapist. 
Eventually they released me from the hospital. I took off the blue, paper, pajamas dressed in my regular clothing. That night in the Emergency room cost me eight hundred dollars. I left feeling that there was no help for me. It seemed that I was not sick enough to be admitted to the hospital. I was confused and disappointed that I did not receive the help that I needed. In retrospect, maybe I just needed to check myself in to a drug and alcohol rehab center, but I was not ready for that. I had a prescription for medical marijuana, not a drug addiction.
The next morning we went over Betty’s house. She and her husband, Milz were very kind. I didn’t want to go back to the reality of my life. I asked them if I could stay the night. Of course, they said yes. I woke up the next day, drank coffee, and had my morning toke. It felt as though the whole day before was a dream.
I felt as though I had no place to go, or maybe that I did not want to go anywhere. I wanted to be wrapped in a safe cocoon. I knew I could not go back to work. I was despairing for my future. I was still paranoid. During a conversation with Milz I was convinced that he was offering a job in which I was to do illegal things, to go to unsafe places, and watch each other’s back for large payoffs of money. I asked Milz directly, “Are you offering me a job?” He looked confused, like he had no idea what I was talking about. Later in the day I felt anger toward Milz. I tried to be honest with him. All my resentment toward older men was surfacing. I told him that I felt like fighting him. I didn’t mean to say that my intention was to fight him, but I think that may be how he took it. My paranoia increased. I asked them if I was making them uncomfortable with my presence. They said that I was. With a broken heart I left their home. They were by no means at fault. They had done everything they could to help. 
I felt that I was at the end of my life—there was no help for me. I had visited the hospital and they had sent me away. I went to my friends and I was understandably too much for them to handle.
We made an emergency appointment with a psychiatrist in Lubbock. He prescribed me some medications that put me to sleep. I cranked the air conditioner up in my music studio, foiled the window and became a zombie for days and days, I do not know how long. Before this I think that I had only been sleeping for four or five hours at a time. Now I was sleeping twelve hours a day. Slowly, I came back to my senses.







Hello Dolly Rainsong

“Thick, raw sounding wild—refuge in steaming, wood fire. Street musicians sing.”
Greenville Three, 2014

After sleeping for a week, I began to feel somewhat normal. The word “normal” doesn’t actually describe how I felt. Let’s say I felt a little “better.” My normal was dependent on marijuana. However, I was unable to resume my habit of smoking marijuana every day because I knew that I needed to get a new job. 
In desperation, I called a suicide hotline. Instead of a person I reached a voicemail. So, I called a friend that I had met at a musical gathering the year before. He listened compassionately as I told him about how I though my marriage was ending and I didn’t know what to do. He offered to buy me a ticket to North Carolina so that I could reconnect with the group of musicians and artists that I had met the year before. Ross paid for my airfare, my meals, and my room. I will always be grateful for his generosity.
I allowed myself to believe that this trip would be the restart that I needed. I knew that I would need some help staying calm, so I went to the Dr to see if she would prescribe something for me. She refused, telling me that she didn’t think I should go to North Carolina. Ignoring her advice, and once again, taking my medication into my own hands, I visited a friends house so that I could borrow a small handful of zanex pills—just something to help me sleep and take the edge off.
Hope began slowly to return. The upcoming trip to North Carolina seemed to me somehow divine. It felt as though I would find my salvation there. I prepared for my trip by burning 10 CDs of original music to give away in hopes that I might find some support, some kind of direction while I was there. It now seemed reasonable that my life must have fallen apart for a reason, and that I just might find my true self in North Carolina.
I woke up early one morning in May, driving two hours before the sun rose to catch my flight in Lubbock. On the descent into Dallas things went sour. I became terribly air sick on all three flights, so much so that I had to make use of the air-sickness bags. 
Before boarding my final flight I met a guitar player in the terminal. We struck up a good conversation. We were both headed to Greensboro. In fact, our seats were next to each other. I do not believe that I will ever forget the kindness that my fellow musician showed me that day. He sat calmly next to me, while I vomited in the bags, making sure that I had a fresh bag when I needed it. He ordered me a ginger ale to calm my stomach. It didn’t work. That final connection flight to Greenville, SC was short, but very choppy.
At the conference, I hit it off with a woman. As I often do with people, I began to speak openly about what was going on in my life. As the other two people that I was rooming with in the cabin left for a gathering, my new friend and I stayed. My new friend and I lit a fire in the fireplace on the porch and continued a very engaging conversation. When she walked over to the fireplace and bent over to feed the fire with a new log, I realized that I was making some trouble for myself, but it felt so good. This woman was willing to speak softly with me about my pain. She admired my musicianship. It seemed obvious to me that she was a little more than interested when she said to me, “You know, I have a gift for helping men out of marriages.” It made so much sense when she said it. She was sincere and honest. She understood that I had a problem and she was trying to help. Hungry for affection, I yearned for more of her attention. But, instead of making a move toward her, I stood up quickly, swinging the screen door open and practically running down the rock steps to the road. I left her alone on my porch after having been the one who invited her up to my porch.
After spending a few emotional days in The lush, green forest of North Carolina with some beautiful and artistic people, it was time to go home. I gave away all my CDs, including one to David Wilcox, the singer/songrwiter that the event was built around. My telephone number was on all the CDs. I allowed myself to imagine that I would get a magical phone call from David himself telling me how impressed he was with my heart and with my music. Ross, with continued generosity gave me his “Dolly” Rainsong guitar to take home and play for a while.
After stowing Dolly in the trunk, I caught a ride with Nina and Tim. We had quite some time before our flights departed, so we took a detour to the lovely and artistic town of Hendersonville, NC. I was devastated that my time with these people was over. I was fearful to face my family at home. I visited the shops in Hendersonville desperately searching for gifts. I felt compelled to bring things home for the family. The more I shopped, the worse I felt that I didn’t really have any money to buy anything. All the purchases were going on a credit card that already loaded too heavily. Before I even though about what the message might imply to her, I bought Carol a shirt that said, “Grow Your Own Way.” 
My emotional state heightened. I observed the street musicians, each on their own corner. Passers by were throwing coins into their instrument cases. I had Ross’s guitar with me. In that moment it seemed to be my destiny to stay in Hendersonville and play on the streets for a living. I felt certain that it would end in my divorce, and possibly death, but I was ready to face that right now. I re-entered a sandwich shop I had visited earlier. Planning for the possibility of rain, I asked the manager if I could play for tips in his restaurant. His positive response seemed friendly to me—more than friendly—It seemed like an invitation to his town. 
The sky was blue and the trees were deep green as I walked the streets of Hendersonville with Tim and Nina. I carried Dolly by my side so she wouldn’t get too hot in the car. I felt as if Ross had loaned me this guitar for this purpose. But, how was I going to break this to Tim and Nina. They were supposed to take me to the airport. I chose a very direct approach.
“I am staying here.” I said. 
Nina said, “I don’t understand. We need to go to the airport now.”
“I don’t want you to be late for your flight.” I said. “Please leave me here.”
“I don’t think that’s a very good idea,” said Tim.
We went back and forth like this for quite some time as I explained to them my plan of becoming a street musician in Hendersonville. Apparently, both Tim and Nina had extensive crisis counseling experience.  They recognized my situation and they helped me to get where I needed to be. They never insisted. They just kept coming back to me. They wouldn’t let me stay, but they were not forceful about it. I felt determined, but I could see that they were not going to leave me. I did not want to be responsible for them missing their flight. I squeezed Dolly back int the trunk on top of the luggage and took my place in the back seat. As the car began to move, I leaned my head against the glass in the back seat and began to heave with emotional tears. I was frightened of what was happening to me. If it wasn’t for Tim and Nina, my life might be totally different right now.
My breakdown cost me a lot. I called my boss and asked him if I could come back to work, he said he would have to think about it. I never heard from him again. Also, my crash was rough on Carol. I began to understand that it hurts others when I hurt myself. I began to understand that I still had a real problem that marijuana could not fix.





Retirement Ranch

The wisdom of age
The frailty of my body
This is where they meet
Thom Ashington, 1865

I ordered a box of drug-test-kits and some thick liquid that came in a large, brown, glass bottle. The viscous fluid was supposed to help my system to clear the THC. If I wanted to get a new job, I needed to piss clean. It took my body about 45 days to cleanse itself of the THC stored in my adipose tissue. Once the little blue lines stopped appearing on the test strips, I applied for a job at a nursing home. When I peed in the bottle, it had been sixty-five days since my last smoke. 
As I continued on my career path, I was crushed. The herb on which I had depended so deeply had failed me. I was resigned to misery, like so many of the other residents at the nursing home.
Although it smelled much cleaner than the other two homes I had worked at, I still felt ill in returning. Immediately I had conflict with my new boss. She wanted to talk with me about communication. When I asked her why we needed to talk about communication she didn’t have a straight answer. Those first two days were wretched. I overcompensated for my mental illness, putting on a high energy show the first day in the gym, trying to be as happy, and congenial, and as funny as I could possibly be. It was too much for all of us.
After my second day at work, I couldn’t sleep. I was up all night fretting about the next workday. I was frightened by the suffering that I was encountering at the nursing home. I was overwhelmed by my responsibility to relieve that anguish. I was angry and disappointed that I had left my teaching gig for full time physical therapy. Early in the morning, prior to my third day of work, I texted my boss, telling her that I was quitting.
Carol was understandably very frustrated when I told her the news. I had been out of work for over two months. She made it very clear to me that if I wasn’t going to pull my own weight in our home that I needed to leave. I panicked. The streets were filled with water. In the pouring rain I drove to the PT clinic across town. With a trembling voice and tears in my eyes, I begged for a job that was not available. As I returned home my cell phone rang. It was a conference call from the nursing home. My boss and her boss were on the line. They asked me if I was sure I wanted to quit. I said I was not sure, that in fact I would love to continue working for them. And that’s how that worked out.
I attempted to resume my old habit of smoking before work. “Maybe that’s what the nursing home needs,” I thought to myself, “Just a little herbal magic!” I became lost and confused in the new environment. I walked in to the office of the director-of-nursing as she stood just outside her door observing me. The marijuana just wasn’t working anymore.
Then, I decided that I would just be a happy guy who sits on his porch in the evening, playing his guitar after he has smoked just enough weed to enjoy himself. That didn’t work either. Getting high just reminded me of how miserable I was when I wasn’t high. I woke in the morning facing my torment anew. 
I finally resigned myself to a life of miserable sobriety. With firm resolve, I took all my marijuana over to my friends house and gave it away. Handing over a dozen partially filled bags of weed, I felt as if I was giving away my fortune. I had become willing to accept a life without marijuana, a pleasureless life. I began gathering some days of sobriety for myself.
If it wasn’t for the kindness and generosity of my co-workers during that time, I would have never made it at the Retirement Ranch. After fourteen months on the job I had made peace with the job and my sobriety. I was meditating again. I was exercising. I was eating right. I was experiencing some hope where I had once been hopeless. But then, my restlessness returned. I could feel myself being drawn to that little purple pipe. It was sleeping safely, tucked away in a black lock-box on my studio desk.



A Program

“Take just what you need. You can leave the rest behind.”
                         Recovery friends

After about a year of sometimes miserable, sometimes joyful sobriety I encountered some difficulty. I was in serious emotional pain. Meditation, spiritual-practice, exercise,  and “clean living” did not seem to be enough to help me. I was in such turmoil that it became difficult to sit quietly with myself. I had committed myself to a lot of serious self-evaluation, trying to understand who I was and why I responded to life the way I did, trying to face my fears, pulling myself out of the grave I had dug for myself. It was during this time that I began writing this book.  I was experiencing a restlessness that I knew would lead to self medication through drugs and alcohol. 
I was aware that Linda, a family friend, had once had a problem with alcohol and that she now valued her sobriety. I called her and asked if she would have a conversation with me about staying sober. She invited me to come to a 12 step meeting. With my emotional pain levels rising, I knew that I needed to do something different, but I was unsure about attending a meeting. I knew enough about these kind of gatherings to understand that people would be talking about God there. “Oh fuck!,” I said to myself. “Why can’t Linda just talk to me about being sober? I don’t want to go to one of these fucking meetings.” The fact that I actually went is a testimony to the level of emotional pain that I was experiencing.
After my first terrible 12-step meeting where people were spouting off about how they couldn’t have stayed sober without God, or a higher power, or one kind of magic or another, a man approached me. He had an air of urgency about him. He offered to take me for a drive. “A drive?” I thought to myself. “I wonder what kind of bullshit this guy is going to try and feed me. But, what do I have to lose?” After all, he was paying attention to me (I do love attention), he didn’t mention God, and he seemed to be an intelligent sort of fellow. He told me that, early in his sobriety, an atheist had helped him along the way. This statement made me believe that just maybe it was possible to get some help.
Dan, over the last eighteen months has turned out to be one of the most helpful people in my life ever. It turned out he was not only intelligent, but kind and compassionate, qualities that I value greatly. Dan had been going to these meetings for twenty-eight years when I met him. He told me that I could take what I could use from the meetings and that I could leave the rest there. I began right away, working through the twelve-step program. 
Dan did not give me any easy answers. In fact, he had no answers at all. Only his own experience to share with me. He simply offered his friendship. “You are not alone,”  and “I am here for you,” are the two things he told me that carried the most weight. Dan was willing to hear my concerns about the dogma that was sometimes preached at the meetings. “Keep coming back,” they would say. So, I kept coming back, in spite of the fact that sometimes the meetings made me feel worse. Dan would say, “Well, if you don’t like these meetings, you must really value your sobriety to keep coming.” Dan told me that if anyone ever deserved their sobriety I did. 
After going to meetings for eighteen months now, It appears to me that, in order to stay sober, I need a group of people who are also in recovery. I need community to grow. I need to surround myself with people who are willing to sit and listen to me, and I need to sit and listen to them as they grow also. I understand that not everyone may need this to stay sober. This is not my new religion. I don’t need anyone else to believe. 
 It appears to me now that my sobriety is less about not-doing-drugs and more about staying present in this moment. That phrase, “One Day At a Time,” somehow has come to mean very much to me. I have spent much of my life making vows to myself and others that I could not keep. I cannot remain present with myself for a lifetime, but I can give myself the opportunity to “Keep Coming Back” to this present moment. I can give myself the option of refraining from self abuse just for today. Just today. That’s all I have.
As I have mentioned before, I am an escape artist. For all my life I have been using one thing or another to distract myself from today, often living in the past or the future. The funny thing is, this is all information I already knew, lessons I had learned from my practice of mindful meditation, but I was having a hard time delivering them to my heart. I believe that I needed a recovery community to help me to integrate these practices into my life in a deeper way.
I have no intention of telling you that I have arrived, that I am now free of my fears, that I do not struggle, or that I have the answer. Far from it. It’s like the Paul Simon song, Slip Sliding Away which states, “The more you near your destination, the more you’re slip sliding away.” Life appears to be getting more difficult for me as I age, and as soon as I think I have it figured out, that I have an algorithm I can live by, a formula, I find myself in another state of insanity. In fact just six months ago I seriousl;y entertained suicidal ideations. I truly hope you did not read this far hoping that I had any answers. I do not know what kind of tricks my mind may play on me tomorrow. I only have today. 
I have begun to understand that resentments are terribly toxic to me, even those that may be justifiable. I hold grudges. I find it difficult to forgive others for the pain they have caused me. It seems that this has something to do with my inability to value myself. I still gain my identity based on what others think of me. It is difficult for me to believe that I am enough. I hope that I can believe that about myself someday. I hope I can begin to see that I am enough.
Hope. I took Hope to the kill shelter. For a very long time, I was unwilling to hope. I thought hope was killing me. Like Red, the character played by Morgan Freeman in Shawshank redemption—He is cynical about hope. He believes that hope will kill a man in prison. But, after Andy escapes from prison, he writes Red a letter saying, “Remember Red, hope is a good thing, maybe the best of things, and no good thing ever dies.” It seems that Hope may still be alive in me.
“Andy Dufresne, who crawled through a river of shit and came out clean on the other side.” Penny used to remind me of that line all the time. Maybe I am just now beginning to see what she was showing me. For my own mental health, I need to believe in progress. I need hope.







Genetic Drift

The whole world is made of dung and blood and devil's piss. 
Yet, when a selfless one holds it, it tastes like sweet spring-water. 
                                                Rumi

Although I greatly respect science and the practice of rational thought, I am by no means a pure scientist. I am, at the heart of me, a pathos creature—one who will choose a story with emotional appeal over a strictly factual retelling of events, searching for a useful “truth” among detailed facts. Therefore, I do not feel compelled to adhere to a strict interpretation of scientific terms, hence the title of this little book, which is at best, merely inspired by true events.
For a time, I attempted to live with an absolute scientific/materialist philosophy. It was a result of my journey out of the fantastic realm of the magical and into reality. It was a result of some important steps in my growth process. However, I found that my personal brand of nihilism, too, was exhausting. As I ventured deep into the realms of meaningless, it seemed to demand from me a faith in absolutes that I found akin to religious fundamentalism. Just as with my religious experience, I was unable to sustain the practice. I am willing to accept this as my own limitation, perhaps a lack of creativity or visceral fortitude. As an aspiring nihilist, I found myself behaving like a fundamentalist again. With a poetic irony, having again swung from one extreme to another, I became an evangelical neo-atheist, along the lines of Richard Dawkins, preaching against the evils of religion and calling for its eradication.By definition, nihilism requires a belief in meaninglessness. That kind of belief is beyond the realm of my faith. In a world where science permits the possibility of an infinite multiverse, it appears to me that, literally, all things may actually be possible after all, even if all things may not be possible in our tiny universe. .
It is in this way that I have appropriated for my own purposes, the term Genetic Drift. Genetic drift symbolizes to me the chance encounters with fortune and misfortune that all living creatures encounter. When animals are lucky, chance encounters lead to reproduction—the proliferation of their genes—the making of babies. When creatures are unlucky, these chance encounters and circumstances lead to their demise. 
I am one of the lucky ones. I found a mate. We created offspring. We have cared for our offspring and we are helping them to gain a foothold in the world. I have had relatively good health. I have had opportunity to explore multiple jobs, religions, and philosophies. I have bookshelves filled with a small library. I play music and I am learning to write. No one shoots at me. My children have food and shelter. I have experienced just enough suffering to discover my own brand of resiliency.
As I have passed down my physical DNA, I now have the opportunity to contribute to the world my spiritual DNA. Spiritual DNA for me represents those aspects of humanity that cannot be measured. The great presence in us that seems to defy definition—the being that cannot be objectified, yet presents itself to us in every moment as we acknowledge the infinite mysteries of our own consciousness. This is the stuff that fairy tales are made of. It’s the beginnings of rhythm and music—the origin of archetypes—the genesis of mythical tales—the whispy quality of being human that all the authors of all the religions have somehow helped us to recognize. The possible outcomes of human experience are vast and varied indeed.
Some of us are literally born into death, never knowing life outside the womb. Others are born into insufferable conditions and find prosperity. Some of us are born into wealth and yet live the most impoverished of lives. Some of us are born into war, yet create peace. Others are born into peace, and make war. Sometimes we are filled with hate—other times filled with love. Some are filled with ambition to rule the world, while others are content to live out seemingly insignificant lives. The outcomes are innumerable and unpredictable. It appears to me that there is great chance in it all—a humbling observation that redirects my tendency for self-righteousness.
Humanity’s good fortune has gifted us with language. Language has give us the capacity to pass down, from one generation to the next, our wisdom along with large amounts of information, which builds exponentially as our population and technology has grown. From this vast store of wisdom and information we have created story, or perhaps story created us. It is, in part, our ability to pass these great stories along that has enabled us to flourish as a species.
Often times, stories are appropriated and used to make war. Whichever side wins these wars controls the resources, and the stories that are told afterward. With their resources they advertise their stories to the world, with the appearance that the heroes in their stories have the gods on their side. In this way, the stories most worthy of being retold are hijacked and used for the purpose of the dominating power structures
It is true that the human story is one of survival. But, I believe our species has been successful because of our willingness to nurture one another, not make war against each other. It appears to me that our world is now in great need—that in many ways we have disconnected from our nurturing nature. Is it possible that our intellect has outgrown our compassion? If so, how can we redirect our course?
My sphere of influence is small. I am writing not because I think it will make a big difference, but because I am committing myself to make a small difference in a big world. I am writing because I believe that the spark of love which exists in humanity is the spark of the divine. I believe that if I can learn to love and respect myself it matters. I believe that the love and respect that I find for myself will give others the opportunity to find that for themselves. 
I have had so much help along the way. I cannot count or remember all the many people who have shared their divine spark with me. The spark they shared was often not the spark that I thought I needed. Sometimes the spark ignited the flammable parts of me and burned me up. Strangely enough, this was the prayer I prayed twenty years ago: “Burn me up, God. Burn me up. Everything inside me that is not love, God. Burn me up.” The process was long and arduous, and it continues to this day. And it all started because I was willing to believe an unbelievable story.
The story that I believed was one of sacrifice and of love. I believed that the divine could dwell in humankind. I believed in love. That belief in love has been renewed in me today.  As the sun eclipses outside my studio, and the shadows through the leaves are shaped like crescents, my faith is renewed. I have Faith that when we learn to love ourselves and the world exactly as it is, that progress is possible. I believe in you.



The Ageless Ophidian

Now I enjoy breath
A miracle of being
I share it with you

The boy, having been first crushed, then consumed by the constrictor, became the nutrients that fueled and formed the ageless ophidian. He was now one with the snake. The boy’s proteins added to the serpents’ muscles, his minerals strengthened bones, his lipids were stored as a thin layer of fat under basilisk skin. The boy could no longer be afraid of the snake because he was the snake. 
The snake was one with all. He did not understand separation. For the snake, there was no other—no separation from the world outside him. His bites contained no malice. His contractions no rage. In eating the boy he had only done what snakes do.
Now the boy saw through the snakes eyes. And through the snakes eyes he had no resentment toward the snake for having consumed him. The boy rested in silence, one with the snake, in that ancient, animal meditation—the silence that was before language. The silence that is without story, where all focus is on physical sense. The silence which cannot be spoken. The silence which cannot be broken. Only known. only felt. No description. No justification. The  silence for which there is no distraction, any sound only accentuating emptiness. This is the silence that man fears.
In this silence there was no fear, and therefore no need for courage. Hate no longer was, so there was no anger. His breaths came slowly now. In…….out…… 
Then, the boy awoke. 
He awoke from this dream, into another dream in which it was he who had consumed the snake. The snake was part of him. The snake’s mind was embedded in his DNA, its coding present in every cell of his body. Now he knew what the snake knew.
The boy sensed a tightness. A restlessness. And he instinctively knew. He knew that it was time to shed his skin. He found a quiet place—a place where he could not be harmed—where he would not be disturbed, and he began remembering. He began remembering how he had feared. He recounted these stories that have been told here. And as he wrote, he realized that words can only address the past and future. There is no language for the present. As a word is heard, it is already in the past. And even the future, when once it is reached, quickly becomes the past. 
The boy began his molt. He knew how to wait. 
He often forgot the important things he knew. But he re-learned, over and over again, how to be here. He re-learned these lessons—The lessons that humans have been learning even before our ancestors were human. The ancient lessons from Africa, long before Africa had a name. The lessons that began before language. The lessons of quiet, and calm, and nurturing in the face of danger and suffering. The lesson of the strawberries and the tigers. The lessons of courage. The lessons of struggle. And the lessons of surrender. The lessons of holding on, and the lessons of letting go. The deep lessons of being and non-being. The lessons of life…and death. All these he had learned from his friend, the one he had feared so long ago…the ageless ophidian.





…End of autobiography



Short Essays


Small Town Dilettante

I wake up at 1am. The television trumpets from the living room. Joseph is watching a sit-com. I lay in bed for an hour and a half. Finally I get up, put on my pajama-bottoms backwards, and make my way to the computer screen. I have a little rhyme in my head...
“Although I may have mentioned Hegel and Kant
I admit to you freely, I'm just a small-town dilettante”
I type my little rhyme. I want to post it on Facebook. I reach for the internet. No response. After trying several more times to ignite my fuse to the free world, I resign. Facebook a million miles away, I sit quietly, awed by ten-thousand stars displayed on my mac screen-saver. I imagine myself a paleolithic man, separated from my tribe. This is what it must have been like to sit in front of a computer screen twelve-thousand years ago, before the vice president invented the internet.
Maybe I should practice breathing. I flatten my feet on the floor, tilt my pelvis slightly, subtly extend my spine, gently adduct my shoulders, and take a quiet breath. It's a deliberate posture that helps me open my heart and lungs. I experience brief moments of pleasure breathing this way. Occasionally my breath presents itself, calmly reminding me of its focused simplicity. It is a maturing friendship that I am beginning to trust. 
Breathing is our most basic physical function, and I have begun to intentionally return to my breath. It doesn’t require contrite tears or heartfelt prayer. The breath is real, or as real as it gets, even after we begin doubting the reality of this entire experience. We all have the breath in common. If we can’t enjoy a breath, what can we enjoy? As long as I experience this consciousness, my breath will be here with me. What if I get emphysema? Would I then feel betrayed by my breath? Maybe so. I’ll just have to deal with that as it comes.
Sometimes I notice that I am holding my breath. Sometimes my breath goes shallow and unnoticed. Sometimes I take an awkward deep breath when I am feeling anxious, trying to connect with some sense of sanity. I am breathing now as I am writing, pausing occasionally to be with my breath. It is a practice. An ancient computer interface. 
There are different schools of breathing: 
Some say, “breathe into the belly”. 
Others say, “breathe into the chest.” 
Some say, “just take the breath as it comes, however that is, just noticing the character of your breath. Don’t force it one way or another.” 
Others say, “Control the breath.”
Some say, “focus on the breath intently.” 
Others say, “touch it lightly like a bubble with a feather.”
I wonder if the breath may be the form that we can finally gather around once the internet isn’t working any more, when all the dumpsters have been set on fire. Once we realize that praying to the one-true-God is causing a lot of violence, maybe we could return to our breath. When our computer screens won’t show us the stars anymore, maybe we will light more campfires and breathe more air. It won’t seem ideal to many of us I’m sure, especially those who like to sit, warm and cozy, in front of computer screens breathing in our own comfortable musings.

Honestly. These words are connected to ambition. I want to be famous, and all for really good reasons which I won’t try to justify now. I could do without fame as long as I had lots and lots of attention. But, I have been imagining what it would be like to drop my ambitions. Sometimes I do it. Just for a moment. It feels really good. But, I usually pick them up again very quickly. The experience leaves me wanting more (how ironic that detaching from desire only produces more desire). The only way I have found to drop my ambition is by replacing it with the simple pleasure of my breath, maybe coloring in a coloring book, or drawing in the dirt.
Has nature selected for genes that make people want to be famous? Fame does increase ones opportunity to create offspring. I read in my evolutionary psychology book that females are genetically pre-disposed to choose males that are good at gathering resources. Fame often indicates fortune (resources). So, it seems that our desire for fame may be hard-wired.
So, maybe I have been struggling against nature in my futile attempts to detach from a desire for fame. But, I have already produced my offspring. And, I’ve had a surgery that would prevent me from sowing my reproductive seeds with any more females. If there was just some way I could communicate these facts to my ancient inner-primate: Fame is no longer needed, you hairy creature! But, he doesn’t care. Rational arguments based on evolutionary psychology textbooks don’t convince him of anything. So, I will just continue returning to my breath, coloring books, and the sandbox like a good little homo sapien.
Here I sit at four-thirty in the morning, having no idea what in the hell Hegel and Kant are saying. Their words are just a dizzying mess. I don’t even try to understand them anymore, their names just part of a catchy title for my blog. I can’t hang with those philosophers. So, I’ll just resign to the very broad, often obtuse experiences of the well meaning dilettante, abandoning my ambition on a daily basis.
Maybe this is what awakening looks like: "Oh, I see! And, when I see, I am not angry, I am enlightened. God forgive us because we have no idea what we are doing." Return to breath…
I look for those open doors on my own terms, because that’s really the only way I know how to find them. Any other way always turns into another dead-end religion for me. Even the atheists get evangelical with their supposed "non-belief".
Sometimes I sense an honesty in my approach. When I realize that honesty I breathe easily. 
Maybe I will never get Hegel and Kant. 
Right now I get Carol. I get Joseph, Anna and Emma. I get you, my friend. I am grateful that I caught my breath, just long enough to get this. 
Although I may have mentioned Hegel and Kant
I admit to you I’m really just a small-town dilettante



A Pretentious Douche


I tried recently to open up lines of communication between my brother and I.  Should I try to explain why the lines are down in the first place?  I don’t trust my ability to explain.  I am quite sure that my words will convict me of being a bad person.  Can I tell this story without destroying myself? Can I do it objectively? I doubt it.
I am breathing now. Waiting for clarity. Waiting for honesty.  Waiting for compassion too, for my brother and myself…
I haven’t seen my brother, Kyle, in a long time. I won’t even begin to explain why for fear of getting lost in accusation toward myself and him. But, I do feel fairly confident that finding fault will get us nowhere. Kyle texted me the other day saying, “I want to be an uncle.”  Considering the fact that I have three children, well…he is already an uncle. Stating this fact, I thought, would be the simplest response to his text, but I didn’t respond that way because I thought it would be too obvious and possibly perceived as smart-ass. After all, he hasn’t seen the kids in over six years, so I felt that I kind of knew what he was getting at. 
Instead, I asked him specifically what he was requesting. I asked him what he was looking for that he didn’t already have. I also told him that I didn’t know what I would be capable of giving him and that I was cautious, but I was willing to open up a conversation on this topic. It was quickly apparent that my response had offended him. 
He became very aggressive with his language. He wondered where my loyalty to blood had gone. He questioned whether or not I had testicles. And then he said something that really landed home. He called me a “pretentious douche.” I quickly looked up the word “pretentious” online: “attempting to impress by affecting greater importance, talent, culture, etc., than is actually possessed.” 
Despite the fact that I was hurt and somewhat angry, I intentionally did not respond to his barrage with attacks of my own. Instead I apologized for the pain that protecting myself caused him. I also apologized for not communicating effectively. Then, I let my brother have the last words of the conversation which were, “We will just see each other at our funerals.” 
As I mentioned before, I was hurt, just as my response to Kyle’s request had obviously hurt him. I sat with myself for some time, looking inward, trying to get in touch with how I felt about this less-than-ideal exchange. From similar situations in the past I knew that I would more-than-likely experience emotional backlash. It is not always immediate, but I felt certain that it would come. I love my brother, and his words matter to me, whether I want them to or not. I could pretend like I didn’t care, but that would be a lie.
Over the next four days, instead of angrily discounting my brother’s words and perspective, making him the bad-guy and me the good-guy (or vice versa), I chose to consider his words. I felt okay for the first twenty-four hours. But, the following days were more challenging. I didn’t know what to do with those words other than beat myself up (which is no longer an option for me). I have a history of destructive self-hate, so I always have to be careful. But, I still didn’t think that it was appropriate to discount his perspective.
I meditated for several days, breathing, staying present in the moment, allowing myself to observe my negative thoughts and emotions as they came, choosing to give myself and my brother unconditional loving-kindness, allowing myself to fully engage in this experience. Finally, on the fourth day, as I was backing out of a parking space at a local sandwich shop, I had an epiphany. “I can accept and love myself even if I am a pretentious douche.” I smiled.
My brother’s perspective is every bit as valid as mine and from his view I look like a pretentious douche. But, here is the important part, the part I have been missing for years; At the same time that I was able to accept my brother’s perspective I was also able to give myself essential loving-kindness, to give myself the love and acceptance that I have for all the other pretentious douches in the world, including my brother! I also realized that I would never be able to please everyone, and that I cannot afford to drive myself crazy trying to do so. 
It is painful to me that my familial relationships are nearly non-existent. Years ago I decided to detach from my mother, my father and my brother because…..well….because I guess it just hurt too much to be around them. I felt confused by their input in my lives.  I wanted to make distance between myself and them to try and understand who I was. In doing so I think that I hurt them (and possibly myself). But, I no longer blame them for my choices. Nor do I blame myself. I just see it as how things are. And now I don’t know how to fix things.
It occurs to me that if Kyle were to read this, all he would see was me writing like a pretentious douche. Maybe I am just trying to impress you or myself by pretending that I am more loving, or kind, or accepting, or spiritual than I actually am. Even if that is the case, I do not know what to do except to cultivate mindfulness and self-compassion for myself and the rest of the world, including those who can only see me as a pretentious douche.
I have found myself, once again, right in this present moment. I have gone for years without touching this soft, tender place, this place where I find compassion for myself, where I find loving-kindness for those who think poorly of me. I have spent so much time feeling embarrassed about who I am, hiding from myself and my bitter feelings of jealousy and anger, convinced that if my life were somehow different, if I were somehow an improved version of myself that I would be a happier.
 It saddens me that there is so much pain between my brother and I that we cannot communicate. But, I do not know what to do to make things different. Maybe things will never change. Maybe they will. How can I know? Maybe one day I will be able to see past my own pain well enough to play my part in healing the brokenness between myself, my brother, my father, and my mother. But, I have learned not to push things too hard. And if we do not mend these relationships before our lives are over, well, we will have learned to live with pain and emptiness and that will be OK.



What Others Think

Have you ever proclaimed, with great confidence, “I don’t care what other people think” only to discover later, that you really do care very much what other people think? Hours—days—weeks may pass, but we eventually realize, even if we are not willing to recognize it publicly, that we do care what other people think. And that’s probably a good thing. 
Those who don’t care what others think are sociopaths. In some respect, sociopaths can be very successful people. From a strict “survival of the fittest” perspective, sociopaths are at a certain advantage. If we really don’t care what other people think — if we have no conscience — there is no limit to what one might do to get ahead.
But, maybe that’s not what gave humanity its advantage. Is it possible our species advantage came from caring for one another. Historically speaking, groups of people who cared for each other out-competed those groups with less-social tendencies.
Do you want to be in relationships with people who don’t care what you think? Probably not. More than likely, you want to spend time with those people who value your views. You want to be around people who care about what you think. It’s a human thing.

Through social media we are able, more than ever perhaps, to hear what others are thinking. At the moment of a thoughts inception, we broadcast our new thought to all our followers. Anyone who has experimented in developing an online persona can understand the pros and cons of this phenomena. What thoughts do we share? Which posts do we click the “like” button? How transparent about our own lives are we?
The internet provides us with an unprecedented opportunity to connect with one another. Of course, there is a flip side to this opportunity as well. If our social skills are lacking, the internet can be very isolating. In fact, my own social media experience has often highlighted my personal insecurities and disconnectedness.  I have blamed technology for my isolation, but maybe it is only pointing out an isolation that already exists.

I am a relatively transparent person. Sometimes I wish I were different. In fact, I often spend a lot of energy trying to cover up my inner thoughts and feelings. However, occasionally I find myself very accepting of who I am. In these moments of acceptance I realize that I carry a great gift. I am human. I am a member of the only species on the planet that can communicate with symbolic language. I am part of a great social experiment.
I wonder what might happen if we were able to use social media to help each other understand, not just  what we are thinking, but why we are thinking. In other words, it is easy to proclaim our political views boldly, but what might happen if we began to help one another to understand how we came to our conclusions?
Everyone’s worldview has an origin. Our experiences are the origin of our world views. Those experiences form our stories. Often times, our stories are our most sacred possessions. What might happen if we became brave enough to share our origin stories with one another? Not for the purpose of converting each other to our beliefs, but in order to help each other come into a broader view of the big-picture. 
Undoubtedly, this endeavor would require great care. The level of interpersonal skill required —not to mention the courage — would perhaps be unprecedented. We have some work to do. But, if we could, together, establish a deep practice of communication, it may start some kind of revolution — a revolution of transparency.

Certainly, it is important that we develop our thought patterns outside the status-quo. Many of us know this. And maybe, it is this practice that causes us to utter that phrase: “I don’t care what other people think.” However, it may now be time for us to come out of our little closets—to transcend that isolating statement— to share those stories that have shaped our worldview—to give others a chance to care about what we think.
Telling our own story makes us vulnerable. As we tell our story, we realize that we do care what others think. But we need to care about what others think. All of our stories are born out of pain and suffering — even those of us who are granted great privilege through birth. The story of life is a story of suffering. There is no escaping it. Recognizing the validity of one another’s stories — caring about what others think — may be a healing act for ourselves and the “others” in our world.





Taking It Personally


I am beginning to realize what all those friends meant when they said to me, "Don't take it so personally." It was pertinent advice. However, not so easy to understand for someone who naturally views the world through a painfully personal lens. I can recognize now that taking things too personally has been detrimental toward my well being.
Last night, when two of my kids were having a conflict, I tried to perform some peaceful-parenting. Determined to show off my newest skills, confident of my ability to show them the way of peaceful conflict resolution, I asked them to sit down with me. Emma, my youngest yet highly perceptive daughter, dug in her heels. She knows exactly what to say to get to me. I quickly lost my connection with my own peace. The more she resisted, the less skilled my efforts became until we were angrily mocking each other. I had taken it personally.
Later that night, after turning out the lights, Carol asked me, “how are you doing?” She was trying to help, I’m sure. But, after a day that had already been filled with opportunities to deal with my own insecurities, her simple question felt threatening. I can see now that the question was only reflecting my own self-doubt. It seemed to me that she was trying to draw attention to my failure. It took some time, but with her patient help I was finally able to recognize how personally I had taken the whole situation.

It seems that valuing peace and making peace may be two different things, like the difference between admiring great feats of athleticism and performing them. The difference between listening to great music and composing it. The difference between enjoying a gourmet meal and preparing one. Or, reading a great novel and writing one.

I have done all this before: 
1. I adopt a vision of a-better-way-to-be (a life masterfully lived)….
2. I make a whole-hearted, yet exhausting effort to realize my vision…
3. The results of my effort appear insufficient…
4. I interpret insufficient results as failure…
5. I internalize this interpretation as a personal failure…

There is this spiritual concept of no-self that I have been encountering in my readings recently. I wonder how that could apply here. What if I were able to make that leap? Would detachment from “self” allow me to stop taking things so personally? After all, isn’t it my ego (my personal-ity) that is taking everything so personally? And if I could stop taking things so personally, what the hell would that look like in the moment when my belligerent 13 year old daughter seems to be intentionally using my own transparency against me?
I find it interesting that so many of our greatest spiritual figures had to leave everything behind to realize their remarkable spirituality. It’s easiest for me to find peace when I am all by myself. Of course it’s easier, it’s only me. I wonder if that is why monks put on robes and become celibate, so they don’t have any children to show them who they really are (no offense to monks and nuns. I think the world needs them. I sometimes wish I was one). 
Although my goal is to make peace right here in my own life, it often seems I am working in the opposite direction. Ironically, the harder I try the less peace I am be able to make. I could have just let the kids work out their own conflict. After all, can peace really be dictated or forced upon anyone? I don’t think so. But, if I could be brave enough to detach from that “self” that keeps taking things so personally maybe I could just “be the peace” that I envision. Maybe that would be the best thing I could do for my family.
“Thank you,” to all the wise people who once advised me to not take things too personally. Unfortunately, when you said that to me, all I could hear was criticism. I was taking your advice too personally. Isn’t that strange how sometimes the very thing we need to hear is the thing we find the most offensive. “How are you doing?”

Fundamental-ism

Some artists/writers have a profound ability to seemingly disconnect from themselves, immersed in make-believe realities which appear completely separate from their own identity. I admire that art form. I think they call it fiction. Isn’t it interesting how so much truth can be contained in a story that never really happened? 
My art and writing, however, is generally autobiographical. I draw attention to this distinction now to identify a similarity between the autobiographical and pure-fiction: Autobiography is, in fact, just another form of fiction. I reconstruct a story from memory that jives with my current worldview .
And, I must admit that I have often spent too much time caught in my own head, taking myself too seriously, inventing these stories about myself that are really quite imaginary. Because these stories that I tell myself seem so closely related to what I know (my experiences), I am frequently unable to identify them as fabricated stories in and of themselves. In other words, I think they are true just because the stories are mine, ignoring my own capacity to deceive myself, a habit that is very common to our species.
The fabricated story that I have told myself for much of my life has been rooted in shame. In my early twenties I became conscious of my need to relieve myself of that burden of shame. I was desperate. The Oklahoma bible belt provided me with its solution. Fundamentalist Christianity.
Many of us understand the problems that arise when we add an “ism” to the end of one of our favorite words. If you are a Christian you can understand communion as a meaningful act of sharing in the metaphorical body and blood of Jesus. However, you will probably recognize that communism (communion-ism) is a failed government system. In other words, you can read in your bible how the early christians shared all they owned, but you probably have certain boundaries with what you share in your own lives. You don’t really want to have everything in common and you likely view that kind of activity as cultish.
It’s the same with fundamentals. For any skill that we engage in, it is important that we devote ourselves to the fundamentals if we want to be successful. Playing guitar, for instance, requires that I learn basic finger placement skills, rhythm, and picking techniques. If I don’t learn these skills I probably won’t be very satisfied with my experience. 
Fundamental-ism however, would look totally different though in relationship to the guitar player. A fundamentalist guitar player would insist that guitar was the best instrument in the world. In fact, the fundamentalist guitar player would believe that playing guitar is what grants him exclusive access to truth, wisdom, and God himself. No other instrument could be a real instrument. Other instruments only invented by an evil instrument maker whose intent is deception.
Fundamentalism happens when we allow any one book, story, experience, god, or belief system to shape our worldview. Fundamentalists generally do not understand the destructive nature of their practice. I know I certainly couldn't. Fundamentalism creates violent division. I read recently an article in The Atlantic which illustrated how the members of ISIS are actually devoted fundamentalists. They make faithful attempts to follow their sacred texts to the letter. From their viewpoint they are the best muslims. Other muslims are false muslims because they are the only ones who are the true disciples of Muhammed.
As with many decisions that we make in our lives, we are often not very informed as we make them. Our environments provide us with certain paths that take us in directions which appear to be the best choice. It’s like we’re trying to find our way down a mountain, encountering ravines, sheer drop-offs, and gravely slopes. We work with the terrain to find our way down. Sometimes we walk for a while, realizing we have come to an impasse and we must adjust our current heading. This is how it was for me with fundamentalist religion.
I don’t think that we even have to be religious to be a fundamentalist, really. We often judge the world by our own set of rules. It’s a coping mechanism we use to help us feel good about ourselves. It can be intoxicating. It is an analgesic. When we look at someone else and see their stupidity it makes us feel better about ourselves. However, this is destructive behavior.
Although these words I have written are from as broad a perspective as I can currently project, I am sure they will not connect with everyone. If you have read this far, we have apparently made some kind of connection, and I am grateful for that. I hope to unite and not divide. My hope is that as I realize a more open and compassionate perspective that I will be able to communicate with people whose viewpoints are different than mine. I know that I still have much to learn. Thank you for staying with me.



About The Author
Travis Erwin is a writer/musician/healthcare-worker and former police officer/farmhand/teacher. He has composed several third person bios but has never recognized in the bio that he is writing about himself. Travis lives with Carol Erwin (his pottery throwing wife who teaches English and studies Victorian literature), three musical children, two happy dogs, and two kitties, in a dusty, Eastern New Mexican, college-cowtown. His continuous struggle to resist self-loathing and other neurotic cognitive formations often define his creative non-fiction. He writes from his job history and journey as a reformed fundamentalist Christian, neo-Atheist, wanna-be-Buddhist-monk, and local rock star. His father thought he was gay and tried to make him run with tightly wound fists. Travis’ writing will resound with readers who appreciate a transparent edge. Although rarely witty, his powerful desire for attention and careful self-deprecating style may hold a reader for up to three paragraphs at a time.



