The old man was silently on a small stool by the fire,  his robes wrapped loosely in the way only an elder was allowed. As always, he said nothing. A younger monk sat next to the teacher, impatiently waiting to hear any sound—any signal that the meditation might be over. Jet-Ki’s attention was unsteady, but he continued his efforts to focus. The crackling of the embers, the sharp smell of smoking wood, birds in trees overhead—their chirps, whistles, and squawks echoing through the trees—The sunlight’s orange glow behind Jet-Ki’s eyelids danced. He ignored the occasional itch on his nose, his eyelids fluttred slightly. A twitching muscle in his left thigh reminded him of grappling practice earlier that day; Jet-Ki tried to remain in the present moment as he had been instructed for years now, but his thoughts wandered. 
From the outside, Jet-Ki looked at perfect peace, but internally his thoughts were churning—like a wood-duck swimming quietly over the surface of a still pond—no appearance of effort above the water, but webbed feet kicking steadily underneath the surface. This was the struggle that was impossible to win, his mind wandering back to his childhood, to his life before he had come to the monastery.
Jet-Ki had not always been Jet-Ki. His mother had named him Janz after her grandfather, Janz Lootenfoot. Her son, Janz Britejem was born into a noble family—the oldest of two sons in line to inherit his families fortune and power. Although they were one of the least influential houses among all the nobles of their thriving city, they lived a comfortable life of leisure and sport. 
When Janz was 4 years old a monk arrived in the city of Fallcrest, an unusual visitor with curious habits indeed. The cheerful, old monk spent his time strolling the streets, a slight smile on his face, observing the children who played in the streets, occasionally handing a copper piece to a beggar. He knocked on the doors of the merchants, politely inquiring of the mothers their children’s ages. He patiently walked each street, visiting the shops, making sure not one was missed. He sent letters requesting visits to the noble houses.
The stars shone brightly in the sky and the moon was a mere silver sliver when the old monk approached the house of Britejem one crisp fall night. The house of Britejem had gladly agreed to entertain the old monks company. Janz was now approaching his fifth year and his mother hoped that the monk would agree to become their house tutor. 
Jet-Ki realized that he was day-dreaming. His meditation teacher had said many times—“the mind is impossible to control. It is only by allowing the thoughts to come, and then letting them go, that focus may be maintained. It is through this practice that one realizes the Ki that resides in every living creature.” 
His regular teachers at the monastery taught with words, but the old man he now sat with said nothing—he never did—that was the Way Of The Observer. It seemed to Jet-Ki that the silence between the two of them acted as a mirror into his own soul. And Jet-Ki was often uncomfortable with what he saw.  Although his Observer never asked any questions, Jet-Ki felt that the old man knew everything about him, all his thoughts, all his dreams, his hidden motivations. The Observer was always watching. During martial arts practice the old man sat on an upright wooden barrel, cross legged, in the corner. During meditation instruction he sat directly in front of Jet-Ki, apparently staring straight through Jet-Ki’s eyes into the emptiness that the elders so often spoke of and that Jet so often wondered about.  At mealtimes the Observer quietly ate his meager serving of rice while sitting across the table from Jet-Ki. During daily chores they worked side-by-side, student and teacher of Emptiness. When he swam with his friends in the river the old man watched from the bank. The Observer had been with him since he arrived at the monastery at the age of seventeen. Once again, Jet-Ki’s mind wandered to the past.
In the sitting room, at the house of Britejem, on that crisp autumn evening, as the bowl moon hung just outside the window and a fire burned in the hearth, the old monk who had been searching the city for weeks requested of Janz’ parents permission to take Janz away.  As Janz’ mother sat skeptically on the couch and his father stood by the fire—face filled with doubt—The old monk explained how his beloved lama had died nearly five years ago and that he was now searching for his master’s reincarnated spirit in the body of a child. After meeting Janz, explained the old man, he believed that he had finally found his revered teacher.
Janz’ parents quickly declined the monks request. However, they did offer to allow the old monk to stay and become his tutor. After a pointed, yet respectful objection which fell on deaf ears, the old monk accepted, realizing that their offer was as close as he could come to helping his lama to realize Ki. 
The old monk sent word of the discovery to his monastery. The monastery sent four additional monks to assist with the education of young Janz. For twelve years the elder monk and his assistants taught the child. In addition to his regular studies in history, music, mathematics and literature, the monks also instructed Janz in the martial arts of the staff and the short-sword. He received daily instruction in unarmed combat as well as the shadow arts. The old monk taught Janz what he knew of the elven language. He instructed him in meditation
The rustle of The Observer’s red robes and the sound of dirt sliding beneath his feet brought Jet-Ki back to the present moment. The Observer’s posture was perfect, yet relaxed. Jet-Ki slowly raised his eyes to meet the old man’s. Their meditation was over. It was mealtime.
As they made their way to the common building Janz remembered the day that he had left his name and his inheritance behind at Fallcrest—The same day that his parents had finally revealed to him what the old monk had told them on the night of the bowl moon. Janz was disgusted. He felt that they had deprived him of his destiny. It was then that he decided to leave home and live at the monastery with the five monks, who by now felt more like his brothers and sisters than his younger sibling. It was that day that Janz Britejem became Jet-Ki. He walked away from his family and the easy life of a noble to become an ascetic, training in the way of the Ki. That day was now nearly ten years ago.
Jet-Ki was not the only novice monk at the monastery who was thought to be the embodiment of the lama. There was one other who had arrived long before he had come. Felan-Ki had arrived twenty-two years ago, at five years of age, her parents strong respect for Ki outweighing their desire to keep their daughter for themselves. The discovery of two reincarnations had caused a division among the monks. Some could not believe that the lama would be reincarnated as a female while others were certain that the presence of Felan-Ki was a sign that the Ki was evolving their consciousness. These unprecedented circumstances left Felan-Ki the only female at the monastary. 
Today was the day that the council of elders would reveal their decision as to who would take the place of the long-dead lama.Since the day he’d left home  Jet-Ki had believed that he was The One. In fact, he was certain of it. Sometimes he could feel the presence of the Old One  inside him. At night he could hear him speak. In fact, his noble upbringing would not allow him to conceive that he could be anything else but special, the reincarnation of a great man. He knew what the decision would be today. He had no doubt in his mind. He was ready for this to be over.
As Jet-Ki and his observer entered the decorated, open-air common building he could see that Felan was already there serving rice to her elder monks, her own observer closely trailing. Jet-Ki felt rising within himself a wave of contempt. He would be glad when this was settled. Felan was always vainly displaying her boisterously quiet service to both elders and subordinates. During the debates in the yard,  she consistently showed off her humble logic, smiling so coix at her own cleverness. And it was obvious by her lack of martial art skills and meager display of the Shadow Arts that she did not have near the level of power over the Ki that Jet showed. Yes, he would be glad when this was over and he could gain his rightful position as lama. The council of elders would not agree with him that day.
As the elders announced Felanto be the new Lama, she watched Jet with sincere compassion. It had been evident to her for quite some time now that Jet had no vision for himself beyond that as head of the order. Jet was unwilling to make eye


