Sept 1 2019

“The real is what works.”
Carl jung

In a very significant sense then, the whole idea of whether or not jung”s  work was science is irrelevant to what is important about it


The faustian idea is that in order to develop fully we have to flirt with things that are quite dangerous but hold on to a sense of higher purpose


When I was a teenager...maybe sixteen or seventeen years old, my father became enraged. I do not remember why. When my father became enraged it would ...there was no telling how long it would last. He screamed. He left. He returned to scream some more. Posessed by his rage. During one of these lulls, I suppose, I went to take a shower. While I was in the shower he returned. He came right in the bathroom without knocking. He intended to forcefully open the shower door and scream at me some more, but he was so out-of-control that instead of opening the shower door, he actually ripped it off the hinges. 

I just smashed a mosquito on the wall.

He screams at me in the shower. 

This time, however, is different. As he is screaming at me, snake comes and envelops him from head to toe, vertically, as he stands there. I turn off the water. I grab a towel. Time is frozen in the moment that Snake has swallowed him from top down. I wrap the towel around my waist. Thank you snake for saving me this time. I walk out of the bathroom, out into my parents bedroom, make a left turn into my bedroom. I leave Snake to work with my father. They can develop their own relationship if that is what is to be. It is none of my concern any more.

My brother...this is just a few months ago. He sends me a text that is for someone else. He is trying to set up a drug deal. He is manufacturing benzo-gummy-bears. When he discovers that he has sent the texts to the wrong recipient, he first begins some kind of begging of me that I don’t tell mom. I am feeling angry in the retelling of this. He becomes somewhat forceful in telling me what I am not-to-do with this information. I wash my hands of it, telling him that I don’t even know what messages that he is talking about….”That’s what I wanted to hear,” he says, finally.

Do I have an obligation to reconnect with these men? What is the direction? Do I have some kind of obligation to try and save these men? Rick. Kyle. Kevin. Adam. 

And what about Janice?  phil?
 
I am grateful to awake in a safe environment today. I am not fearful of attack from outside or inside my home (not MY home. Eli’s Adobe). I am grateful that, although I may awake with some confusing emotions and memories, that I have a spiritual practice that helps me to embrace the process of renewal, and that I have the oportunity to participate every day. I am grateful that spiritual practice is not closed, no one owns it, it is evolving and dynamic. I am grateful for the internet and books that help me to connect with vision and voices that I may have never had the chance to connect with otherwise. I am grateful that my mother paid off my school loans and credit card. I am grateful that I have a job in the healing profession; I have a chance every day to try and help someone. I am grateful for Dan. I am also grateful for the more difficult relationships in my life. 


How well does reincarnation connect with biological evolution ? this idea that in the past we were less evolved creatures. This idea of connection.
