meat world log: January 8 2026


Bearing fruit in the meat world:
Went to two AA meetings with Danno yesterday.
the word "anonymity" as "initiation"


Bill Wilson: "And then, we'll make everybody read this part of the text out loud. Every drunk has to learn to pronounce the word "Anonymity."
Dr Bob: "so be it." How humbled does a man hafta be to find his way into those rooms. "You earned that seat," is what we say to one another. Nobody comes in here on a winning streak.

Crazy Town: Trav's affectionate remembrance of his nourishing times in:

1 x psych unit 
1 x "trauma camp" (LHC Life healing center), 
1 x Viewpoint 12 step treatment center (to which trav got himself admitted with 11 months sobriety. What did the Dr say to you there Trav? What did you do when you got home from Viewpoint? God has been helping me to build self respect. Tasha at viewpoint said: "If you want Self-Respect, then do respectful things." That's OneWay I can describe what this journey has been made of. And this writing project is intended to help me to see the beauty of this man who is rising up. And that...yes...thank you Tasha at Viewpoint...was that her name?

two meetings: one of them reminds Trav of Crazy Town in a lot of ways. Ahhh  beautiful crazy towns. I met Eckhart Tolle in treatment! more literally I read Eckhart Tolle, The Power of Now. That book helped me along my way to a deeper 2nd step. I had a vision there at Viewpoint. Simple Stillness at the Center. That's it. That was the vision. And it was within me. Within. 

anonymity: the folding in. the relief of the bondage of (s)elf. that's the self with a small s. small-mind. ego. selfishness. jealousy. where's mine? how can I use you to get what I need and not let this mug know he's doin' it. see 3rd step prayer, "relief of the bondage of self." A true cry to God surrenders. The Son-of-God never gives up. Love never fails. I Am that Great I Am and so are you. When I go to a room, can I find myself again in the "we" space that we create. Bill and Bob. Dan says, "nobody really knows who sponsored who. Did Bill sponsor Bob? Did Bob sponsor Bill? That's one of the main take homes of the BigBook and the 12 & 12, (see "the program") as far as I can see. We forgot who "we" were. we were living for ourselves. We believed ourselves, somehow, to be separate from the great I Am. 

Documentary editing is rich. I wish you could watch it. You will soon.

The Dream Is Us: 57 minutes of original music that speaks directly into the documentary film.

remembering the 17.6+ brothers and sisters and whoever is suffering out there. Our story must include you. Together, we are discovering our common work, our common stories. and our common love.

Pine needles and fire ants under foot.
Lost terribly to Dan in chess yesterday

I spoke with Dan openly about the grief that comes to me when I face some of the memories in Genetic Drift and MM&MAM. But, this, I believe, is part of my practice. Hozho. keep circling back. I'm not just using that term to be cool and native. I am literally acknowledging the native wisdom and receiving it from/through/with Jacob Lee and Darienne Nez, as represented in the film. Also, I acknowledge Delbert Anderson's "long walk" composition, although I could not find it in my heart to continue playing those notes. However, I did go to Bosque Redondo and participate in the first note. This can become a point of inquiry. I am a questionable character.

April 22nd I have been invited to play at Jacob and Darienne's wedding.

Chess training continues.

Christy is a grandmother again! we celebrated with Italian food last night.

I am living a privileged life. saying a privileged prayer. I pray for the strength to say it rightly.

Fire and knives in 2 days
God sings to me in the songs
We are not alone
God help us all

We pray for our enemies
We trust in the One

We bless those who curse us
turn our hearts to the sun

I met a man at the well
He asked me for a drink of water
I met a man at the well
He said that he could quench my thirst
I met a man at the well
he knows everything about me
I met a man at the well
I love 'cuz he loved first





