
The middle-aged-man hovered there, at the very edge of the observable universe. The middle-aged-man’s brother, Albert, he rode light beams through the sky; and It was his brother Albert’s adventures on those light beams that had inspired the middle-aged-man to venture out into this impossibly distant location, to the very edge of the observable universe. 

Can you see him there, dear reader? Do you see what he has in his hands as he hovers? He grips tightly the handle of what appears to be some kind of cosmic-melon-baller(?). Do you see how he grips the handle and uses the tool to scrape from his very own psychological insides the residue of all the superstition, all the ignorance and all the magical thinking? He hovers here in this space created by his imagination, yet he is very much a rational being. In fact, it was his ascent to reason that drew him out to this sickening vantage point, staring into the void, the unknown, that which we cannot yet detect with our five senses or our observational instruments.

The middle-aged-man uses this tool (this rational scraping tool) in much the same way that his ancestors used flaked flint in the scraping of the meat off the bones. The crushing of the bone and the sucking of the marrow was an earlier innovative behavior which only required a hammer stone. 

Clovis points, atl-atls, and cosmic-melon ballers: tools developed and used by homosapiens on the Eastern High Plains. The Blackwater-Draw anthropologists tell us that there used to be pine trees out here, and that there was immensely more moisture on the ground. There were large, hairy mammals, tusks and trunks, and we were hunting those creatures, together, communing in the brutally sacred nature of our great mother. 

And so it came to pass that the middle-aged-man hovered there that day, at the very edge of his own observable universe, staring into the void, surrendering to the deconstruction of all the anthropomorphism that ever was and that ever would be.  












https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VMCGA9Z_J4k


Analog data (thesis). Digital data–binary– (antithesis). Quantum computing
Did analogue data produce “information” dark-matter?
Dark matter/energy makes up the vast percentage of the “stuff” in universe. The dark matter is attractive. The dark energy is repulsive. Dark energy is responsible for the increased rate of universal expansion. Dark matter is necessary to explain why the galaxies spin the way they do.. We have yet to identify or point to any dark matter or dark energy, but we know that something must be there because otherwise the galaxies would not be able to hold their form. In other words, the type of matter that we can detect is not sufficient to hold the universe together as we currently perceive it to be.. 






Is this the first time that we have communicated with inanimate. 


Science is the gazing at matter until it disappears. More precisely, science is humanity’s cognitive tool which has empowered us to peer so deeply into matter that the quantum realm is revealed. This was not at all unlike a mystical experience. Science is a process-lense through which we contemplate the origin of consciousness itself. The quantum realm is where we discovered that all events are dependent on the observer, that subjective one whose gaze alters the evolving life of the individual and the life of the evolving whole. It is this subjective gaze which which is now deconstructing this binary universe. We might call that Grace.


Science is the narrator who tells us the story of the slight variations in energetic density which were present just nano-moments into the big-bang. These slight variations in density result eventually in the clumping together, or assembly of stuff. Some time after the big-bang (which may or may not have happened), a great condensing began, which resulted in a Big Burn that was made up of many little burns. And by little I mean sun-sized burns all over the expanding universe. Stars are born. The universe, a great womb. And these early star-children create in themselves the heavy elements that will be essential for the type of consciousness that we are more familiar with, the type of consciousness that we will eventually call, “us,” the type of consciousness that will create stone-tool technology, bone flutes, cave paintings, fishing nets, agriculture, and then the stock market. The kind of consciousness that will eventually wake up under a Bhodi tree in India. And then 500 years later will hang on a cross with forgiveness in its heart.  But back to this great clumping-together, or condensation; this is our first glimpse of what we may choose to call intelligence. One of our great questions, not answered here, but merely created, “Why is there something rather than nothing?” There is something because there was a great clumping. Because there was a great clumping, there was a great burning. And it is in this way that science resembles very closely the model of the elephant floating on the turtles back in the middle of an infinitely deep ocean. 


We call this heated condensation stars. These matter-parties we call stars is 


Ocean through a pinhole. That’s what it’s like, yes? When the great One, the I AM becomes intimate in a moment with any particular manifestation of consciousness that happens to call itself “me”. Can I just take moment now to acknowledge that? Is this appropriate to pause like this? 


Thanks for taking a moment, Dave. Bless you, my friend

Travis 



How many bits in a byte? 8 bits

Vera’s intellect grew with her curiosity. And it was apparent to her father that both of his daughters were destined to expand themselves beyond the traditional role of women in American culture. He and Rose did all they could to encourage their daughters to realize their full potential.



Knowledge of good and evil
Its from bits
Anthony archibald wheeler
Claude elwood shannon
Pesach 
Rose
Vera Ruben
Dark matter
Baryonic matter only 5% of all stuff
Dark energy

Emma Darwin comes crashing through the forest to meet with a dying God. Charles didn’t come because he was sick.

Charles sickness.
Charles on the Beagle
Seasickness
Fragile body

Franz DeWal
Floating at the edge of the observable universe
Cosmic melon baller in hand
The Beagle

Day 3 December 21, 2019
Winter solstice
6:30AM

Those who see all creatures in themselves
And themselves in all creatures have no fear.
						Upinashad