So now, dear reader, we may be ready to discuss what our brother Wilber calls trans-rational being. You see, we really believed there for a while that the age of reason would save humanity. “If we can separate ourselves from blind emotion,” we thought “then we will grow up into the big adults that we need to be. If we can just gather enough Empirical evidence, we will finally be able to reduce everything to it simplest constituents thereby understanding the whole of everything that is going on here.” Yes, dear reader, our growing species, in its discovery of the scientific method thought that the nature of reality was just about to be understood. And the physicists, most of them were very confident, “Ahhh, we’ve just about got this one wrapped up,” they said, “Just a few more experiments here, and a few over there…Yes,” we said to ourselves, I think we understand.” But we didn’t understand, dear reader. It was at this point that our deep western yoga of science brought us to the edge. There we stood looking over this gaping chasm of the quantum realm. “It doesn’t behave the same down there as it does up here!” we hollered at each other across the gaping hole that we’d just discovered in a Universe that we thought was absolutely governed by Newtonian Physics. “Nope, that’s not how it works,” said the German man who’d spent his life riding light beams through the depths of the observable Universe. “No. that’s not how it works,” he said, “You see, it is very disturbing to me as well, but you see, this is how it is: When one particle is affected over here, then another particle which somehow shares an invisible connection with her sister is instantaneously affected on the other side of the Universe, and this communication takes place instantaneously as I mentioned before…faster than the speed of light. You see? It’s spooky. I don’t like it myself. But this seems to be the nature of our reality.”

And there you have it, dear reader. Now, There are still Physicists who will tell you that we basically know everything there is to know. But that’s just not the case, especially when we allow ourselves to question the already very unstable assumption that we are the possessors of a consciousness that is capable of true objectivity.

Yes, the age of logic, reason, rational thinking was a stage in our development, but it was by no means the pinnacle. Thanks be to the Gods!

As we circle back in the great spiraling Being who was the Mother of Christ , we find ourselves coming back to the same place in the circle, but at a higher level (or deeper level if that’s how you choose to see it, a spiral moving toward infinite depth). As we transend this rational state, As we transcend our own personal age-of-reason, as we see logic for the silliness that it truly is, we integrate our rational being (Praise be to the great Opal who said three of the most powerful words ever spoken to the middle-aged-man when she said to him, “Logic is silly”…and so it was that the spell was broken in the speaking of the words from this great Witch) . 

 A lot of us right now are pretty dedicated to this absolute materialist view of the world. Or, in the “spiritual” realm (not that there really is a difference) we could call this fundamentalism. Whether you are a scientist or a religious fundamentalist the root is the same. We are obligated to interpret the world in a very literal fashion. It just so happens that this literal approach to life is so far removed from the roots of our very being. It’s just not very human of us to enforce these kind of rules upon ourselves. Can you see, dear reader, the prison from which our Great Mother is emancipating us?

Moving through the rational stage was quite a feat for me personally. As I said before, I had observed myself floating at the edge of our observable universe. There I floated. My mind was perfectly rational. There I floated. I was hard at work. With a great tool—a great Cosmic Melon Baller--I was scraping out from the shell of my soul all those remnants of those foolish superstitions and religious stories that had so tainted me with their lies. 

However, what I failed to see for quite some time is this: If I was going to be completely rational, if I was going to scrape out the entire Christ story from my being, that I was also killing the poet that I was, and my poet goes back even deeper than my Christ story. As a species, we cannot kill one story without killing all the other stories, and in so doing we are denying something very basic about our being that science confirms…we are storytellers. 

And this is what the great yoga of the West is doing. This has been shown to us by those who have come and gone before us and many who still live in our midst. our Great fathers and Mothers: Thomas Berry, Timothy Bence, Briane Swimme, Bruce Sanguin, Ken Wilber, Teilhard de Chardin, The Universal Eileen, Barbara Marx Hubbard. What were all these voices saying in the life of Universal Man?

It just doesn’t make any logical sense to kill the poet. Because if we burn one story, or stifle one religion then we may as well go ahead and burn ALL the books and prohibit any story telling at all. And I’m sure, dear reader, that you can see how silly that is, because it strongly disagrees with our very biology, with our very evolution. We are story tellers. We are a species who is closely linked with our symbolic stories. Even our sacred practice of science is still just creating a story, a story which is fabricated out of the perception of a universe that is absolutely made of matter, or non-matter or dark matter! (I’m not a physicicist! Nor can I even spell right now! Please, someone take over here as I reveal the fragile nature of my own intellect). 

The point is simply this: things are not nearly as solid as we thought they were.

The only rational move is to allow this beautiful, rational mind to embrace this big, beautiful heart. Can we agree on that today? Can we allow this to happen. Can we allow this big beautiful mind of ours to come into communion with these soft, fleshy, vulnerable, wounded, traumatized hearts of ours? Can we agree to stop hurting ourselves in these ways?
