September 8 2019 

On the arch highway…just leaving arch…a large deer runs out in front of my little blue car. I am on my way to Grulla National wildlife preserve. I turn south down a one lane road. The weeds are growing up in the middle so that they hit the bottom of my car, making a shamanic drumming sound. The weeds on the side of the road are sometimes scraping my car as I pass them by. I park the car in the small parking area which is closed in by brown metal bars. I make friends with a small yellow flower, looks like a sunflower. There are red and black bugs capable of flight, obviously feeding on these flowers. I gather my backpack, my water bottle, and yoga mat. I move on through the little turnstile that I assume prevents people from bringing in motorcycles. Wildflowers and bugs all along the path. I should have worn pants. The scratchy foliage is scraping the lower parts of my legs. I pause to find my directions. I am trying to orient myself to the cardinal directions lately as I read Bill Plotkin’s Wild Mind. I am walking west I believe toward the basin. I make my way down the sometimes difficult to find path. Over barbed wire fences that are up to their necks covered in sand. The tumblweeds pile up on the fence, the weeds catch the dust and it builds up that way. I used to try to take care of this problem when I worked at the christian children’s home. The ghost of my family is here. I miss the children when they were little walking these paths. Is there a wisdom that has brought me out here? I walk out into the basin. There are little red leaves covering some parts of the ground. And moist green leaves covering others. Cow patties. 1 successful tree. I walk and begin wondering if I will get lost. I am not so oriented. Compass? Next time bring a compass? Long pants and compass. I finally find a place to sit, wondering if I can do a shamanic journey; I brought my headphones for the drum track. But there are these large red ants…maybe five or six circling me it seems…what is their mission? They seem to be lost, as they walk back and forth. I take my shoes off, trying to settle in. the wind is kicking up. Now raindrops. It’s not a big rain. I can tell. It’s not going to be anything big. So I sit as calmly as I can in the rain. What have I come out here for? So, I take off my shoes and I walk barefoot through the crusty, yet sinking sand.  Look at my tracks to see if I can see my toe prints. I am splay foot walker. An aggressive flying insect starts tracking me. Landing on my legs. I think he has bitten me. I am uncomfortable. I start saying “no no no I don’t like this.” I tell the bug, “I don’t like you.”  I put my shoes on. Walk a little further into the basin. I am not prepared. Bug spray, long pants, and a compass. I turn around. I find a dessicated millipede. I find the tiniest biggest tree that has grown out here. I touch the tree. I am asking for wisdom. I leave the basin, heading back toward the car, wondering if I will pass the trails without seeing them. I ask God for wisdom. I say, “let this be a prayer. I am trying to connect with you. I acknowledge my need to return to the earth. I acknowledge my need to connect with nature. I find a little white cliff. Aesthetically pleasing. I take pictures. A yucca stem wrapped around it’s leaves like a snake. I’m heading back to the car again. I am overwhelmed by tears. I start crying, missing my children, saying, “I have no tribe.” I place the yoga mat down, still rolled up and I kneel in crying…the generative, nurturing adult in me acknowledge the hurting aspects of my being. “I am here for you. Whether you had left home or not, you would still have to mourn the loss of this. Your children are not small anymore.” I am walking back to the car now. I turn to look at the basin, once again, from above now. Maybe next time, I think, I will come more prepared and I will try to walk around the entire basin. A goal? Come with curiosity? A physical challenge. I never felt quite at home down there. Let this be a prayer, to discover myself. To re-wild myself. To connect with the nature of reality…I cannot do this on my own…. 

 

While on the trail I think about getting a dog. A companion. Someone to walk these trails with me. Someone who will appreciate the outdoors with me. Is this why I should move into dan’s house on A street, so that I can get a dog? Do they have a backyard there? Do you understand the commitment that a dog takes? They need so much care. Is there a rescue dog out there who would appreciate being my friend? A companion for whom I would be grateful? Dogs tie me down to a space. Is that okay? 

 

I woke this morning around 2am. Wondering if I could go back to sleep. Relaxed about it if I could not…but still hoping for the possibility….I lay in bed for a long time…I’m uncomfortable…I must make peace with images of people…I  must focus on breath…concentration….I must not allow my mind to run away….this however is about presence and relationship, not as much about discipline…Carol. Ed. Delia. Stefan and Sanaz.  I am breathing and as these images come through my mind. I wish them well. This is how I must be. I am consciously aligning my being with that of Great Spirit. No resentment. Only forgiveness and acceptance for things exactly as they are.  I eventually do fall asleep and wake up several times.  The dreams are profound…it is as is my peacemaking has crossed over from conscious thought to dream world. I am making peace in my dreams. I do not remember any specifics. But I am making peace. I am skillfully making peace in my dream. I wake up and think that maybe I could write these down, but I still want to sleep and I will just allow the memory of feeling of the dreams remain 

 

Does no one desire me? 

Does no one need me right now? 

Am I all alone? Is there another human being thinking about me at this moment? 

Can I bear this aloneness?  

Where is the path? Where do I default to? Is there a book I can read that will fix this emptiness? Is there an asana I can assume that will make me whole? Is there a fast that will open me wider? 

 

Ther is no water in this little town today. Where did the water go? It just stopped flowing from the faucets. I went outside to the pond in the back of Dan’s house, filled a bucket full of water, transported it inside, and dumped it in the toilet so that I could flush. 

 

I’m waiting around for a muse to approach me. 

What is it with Janice? Do I owe her an amends? Does she need an amends? Does the situation deserve an amends? What did I do wrong? Did I injure her? Poor woman. How can I help? I withdrew from the relationship. From the friendship. I stopped being her sponsor. I stated that it was because of my own codependency problems. I did not accuse her of anything. I just stepped back, stopped answering her emails and texts.  

Nothing is happening. is that true? The cat just walked by me as I sit here in the living room with the chromebook in my lap. The shadows are dancing on the tile, and on the upright bass, and on the guitar case, and on everything else in the room. 

A writer? Is this what a writer does? Does a writer sit with nothing to write about…writing anyway…or does a writer wait for something…am I gathering momentum? How can I help? How can writing be of help? Can it help me? Can it occupy my time? Can it fill the space? Is that what I need? A space filler.  

I awoke this morning to a charge of over 63dollars to renew my xbox live account. I was somewhat panicked. I didn’t realize that it was on auto renew. So I chatted online with an agent. She said that she removed the withdrawal. We will see. We will see. I imagined myself going back to the game—the game that disfigured my hand. I disfigured my hand. I should not blame the game on that! I did not want to go back into that virtuual world. 

Let’s see if I can remember the yamas and the niyamas. The yamas are the “don’t dos” and the niyamas are the dos. the yamas: non-violence. Non-hoarding. Non-lying? …..ugh….I’m really not interested in that today…well then…why did you mention it? I do not know....maybe I do not know what it is that I am interested in. what is the gnawing today? The boredom…the feeling that I need something more…I need to turn on the television…I need to turn on a game…I need something to sweep me away…I want to be amazed…should I work harder? Should I give myself a break?  That is always the big question which maybe doesn’t matter near as much as I think it does. 

What is it that happens when I am actually writing something? It’s something different than now. When something comes that seems to have a beginning, a middle, and an end. The fact that dave workman has not responed to my texts makes me feel like not going to hummingbird for their october work weekend. The fact that my paypal account overdrew an account that I do not ever use makes me not want to go to hummingbird. Is there resentment there? Fear? Fear of what? Facing those people that you broke down in front of. Maybe they don’t want you there? Hmmm…who knows….who knows…really none of your business….is hummingbird community something that you want to maintain? There was a lot after you came back from there. What are you accumulating? What are you acquiring? Stories? 

The fall is coming. Some of the leaves are turning yellow outside in the back yard. 

I tore up my discover card this morning. I cut it with scissors. Into sixty five pieces? Hmmm… 

No more credit card to fall back on. Why did I ever do that anyway? Why can’t I just accept that I can’t pay for something now? I even put the Life Healing Center on my discover card. Three thousand and five hundred dollars. What am I waiting around here for? What do I think is going to happen? Transformation continues? How long til I just turn the tv on or the game? What am I holding back for? And to what end? Am I hoping to be someone great? A spiritual guru? Am I content with this if it leads nowhere? 

Can I practice gratefulnesss now? 

“God. You have redeemed my soul from the pit of emptiness. You have redeemed my soul from death.” The sound of my voice echoes off the twenty foot ceiling here at Dan’s. did that vibrational energy make a difference in this world? Is this what I am learning to do? Sit with nothing? Remember stan? He lived at that little house over there. Then he found a woman. Is that what I’m waiting for? The inevitable woman. The inevitable dog? Where is this going? What about this mythopoetic vision for my life…can I be someone who means a lot to a lot of people? Is that the goal?  

Is anyone thinking of me right now? Do I make a difference in anyone’s life? That’s probably not the right question to be asking. In fact, I’m sure that’s not the right question to be asking. Then what is the right question to be asking? What is the nature of reality? Back to gratefulness? How can I help? NA meeting tonight at six thirty. AA meeting tonight at 7:30. 

Just finished an NA meeting. Now at the 7:30 AA meeting. Working with these insecurities. Do people like me? Why do I feel so separated? Why? Is that the right question? Why? Probably not. “why” doesn’t usually help.  

I am grateful for the peace that’s in my heart. Its’ just pretty still.  

 