Sept 2 2019
Shamanic Journey
Dan’s question: “What is my broken wing?”

I am on the rock, above the stream. Snake greets me with a friendly hug. Snake seems in a good mood. Maybe Snake is happy that I have asked someone (Dan) if I can do a Shamanic healing. Snake has never met me like this at the rock before. Snake is bounding up the hill toward the Axis Mundi. We meet at the top and instantly we are in the air becoming one. Now we are in the portal together. I am talking to Snake. “I got Dan’s permission to do a healing. He wants to know what his broken wing is.” I am telling snake that I don’t know what to do that I will trust Snake’s leading. Please show me what to do. I have no idea. We get to the Snake Clan cliff overlook. Dragon is there. Snake/me wraps himself around dragons leg. Now we are one with Dragon but we are also all still there. We immediately take off and start flying through the air. We fly for some time. I am just happy that we have left the ground and I am flying. I am realizing that I don’t really know dragon? I haven’t spent any personal time with Dragon. We see down below that there are large birds flying around, lower, but still above the clouds. We swoop down closer to the very large birds. I am now looking directly into the eye of one of the birds. I stare into the large black eye for a very long time, trying to hollow out, hoping for some kind of union with the mind of hawk. Next, Dan is in the sky with us. He is flying above the clouds, floating above the clouds. We float for some time. Dan is really happy up in the clouds. Snake wraps around Dan very tightly. Snake tail in Dan’s mouth, out through eyes, skeleton, death. I ask snake what more I can do. What more is there to see. How can I help Dan. I do not know. I only saw what I saw.

Shamanic journey over. I return and tell Dan what I saw. The mood is light and we are happy that we have tried this new experience out. I am tired now. Very tired. This is my effort to record this. I do not know how well I have done. I must trust Snake. I must trust Great Spirit. I must trust. I am growing. I am trying. I am trusting. This is all I have for now. I enjoy typing on this machine.


Sept 3, 12:15AM

I wake to a call from Lorne. He seems somehow intoxicated. He says that he’s doing “little kid things.” I tell him that I am also doing little kid things. We talk for a bit then I tell him that I have to get back to sleep. I lay for a while, unable to sleep. I am having itches all over my body. I am uneasy. Thinking about the shamanic journey with Dan. thinking about Janice and her body infestations, the shamanka with the infestation? I sit upright. I meditate. Moving over to the rolled crochet blanket on the side of the bed. I am moved to go outdoors for a walk. I get my headlamp from my Kelty. I jog down the alley. I see a little yellow green sparkling light on the ground. I pass one, I wonder if I should go back, but I see another. I approach one. It is a spider. Wonderful. I am mesmerized. I look at the spider for a time. Then I move on. I begin chanting some non-english cadence with my running. (right now the cat is rubbing up against my computer screen making it difficult to concentrate on my writing. Now I am thinking about Anna and how she has always had a desire to coexist with all the animals, and how she still is very sincere about fostering these animals.) I run down the dark alley with my headlamp. I see dozens of these little yellow-green sparkling spider eyes. They are everywhere I go. I pass a man sitting in a running car on the road. I continue. I am chanting. I am singing. This is not a jog for exercise. This is a jog to rejoin the world. I am outside. I am in the air. I am in the atmosphere. I am in the night. I am out. I am alive. I am moving, strangely at ease even though I have not done any jogging for the entire summer. I come to the trail. The gravel trail. “Beware of rattle snake sign.” I follow the trail out into the grasses and plants. I visited here earlier this summer. There were many wildflowers. I took pictures. Now there are no wildflowers. I leave the trail carefully, scanning with my headlamp for snakes or whatever. I find a little pointy plant. I sit next to it. I try to feel it, to sense its presence through touch. It obviously grew its little defenses for a purpose. I sit next to the plant. I make a transition from this South-man to the North-man. I feel this shift from indigenous chanter to the nurturing, generative adult. I begin to consult the mother earth. I look at all the lights around me. I would like to escape further into nature, but there are lights all around. There is no getting further away unless I get in my car and drive way out. I am here. This will do. I place my left hand and address my Mother. I acknowledge and thank her for the life that she gives, for the life that I am. “I am one of the many.” I say. I acknowledge my wetiko illness. I acknowledge my need for healing. I pray for a return. I pray to remember. I pray for all of us. I remain. I commune with Gaia. I stay for a time, feeling the breeze on the back of my neck, feeling like something is crawling on me. I remember the spiders. I give myself, as best as I can, to the crawling. I am okay. I stay for a while longer. I hear loud trucks and helicopters. Even in this relatively sparsely populated area we are everywhere. We have these lights everywhere. Lights make us feel safe. I turn my headlamp on….I think about returning to the wilderness...I would want a headlamp...lights make us feel safe. I walk down the path. There is a truck that pulls in the parking lot of the park. Ahead of me, I see movement. It is a little toad. I stop and I sit by the toad. I acknowledge the toad. I tell him that I mean no harm, shining my bright headlamp into his eyes. I acknowledge that the toad is a survivor. He is strong. I acknowledge the toad’s wisdom. I ask toad to teach me. I stay for a time, admiring the shape of the toad’s body, watching the fast movement of his breathing under his chin. I get up to move, and I startle him. He hops away into the dark. I move on. I walk through the parking lot past the parked, running truck. I wonder for a moment what the people are up to in there. I begin my jog again. I begin my chanting. I am on the move. I return to indigenous, South-man. I am chanting and jogging lightly. It is playful. I am full of joy. This is not work. This is a joining. I am in my nature. This is who I am. It makes sense. I am able. I can bound if I want for a short period, I am not in great cardio shape right now. I have been waiting for this moment. I continue down the dark road, grateful for my headlamp. I would not be able to navigate were it not for that headlamp. Once, on the gravel trail i turned off the lamp and I was quickly off the trail without even knowing it. I have a choice to continue down a wide and lit street, but I go to the alley, although I still use my headlamp. Almost home, I encounter an ant colony, in the alley. They are moving relatively slowly, and they are largely concentrated within 12 inches of the hole they are digging. They do not seem to be going out to find food, they are only digging. I watch their communal movement. I am mesmerized by the shapes, the lack of pattern, but the movement in general. I begin tracking one ant to watch its path, trying to make sense of what is happening in front of me. I watch an ant drop its dirt load and return to the hole to presumably get another little piece of red earth, doing his part to dig the hole. I return home now. Take off my headlamp. Eli the cat takes this opportunity to return inside too. He is now laying beside me in my bed. I am becoming more like Anna, the little girl who told me, “Dad, you can’t treat the dogs that way. You can’t hurt the animals anymore.”


