September 8 2025
Journaling and producing content for Youtube Channel

When I am in a time of weakness, illness, or simple exhaustion of my mind and body, this is when I must find rest. This is also when I am vulnerable to the lusts of my flesh. I find myself hovering over images of beautiful women on facebook, allowing myself subtle, yet lingering moments of wanting. This is what has been happening today, as I scroll on my phone.  

I can convince myself that I am too tired for any level of discipline and that I am incapable of the necessary self-control. In these moments I am lacking even in my willingness to still myself enough to take a nap. Too tired to still my body for sleep. 

And this is why I am writing now. There is a discipline that I find when I cross my legs and curl my fingers over home row. 

Today I read Psalm 119, out loud, in its entirety, full focus on every phrase, giving thanks to God. And then I slip into lust and lack of self-control. In this moment it is these words that serve as confession to myself and to God. Hello, God. I am here. Here I am. Not separate from you.  

I searched for something to watch on Youtube. Riots in Chicago and Portland. Liberals saying this. Conservatives saying that. Whitney Webb talking about the oligarchs and the deep state.  

We live down here in the foothills 

Where the paths are all riddled with holes 

While the king up there on the mountain 

Will be appeased by nothing less than our souls 

Yes, He wants nothing less than our souls 

And so, we offer our labor 

At the cost of our own worth 

I don’t mean to be rattlin’ sabers 

But, I’ve had my second birth 

Yes, I’ve had my second birth 

I am. I am. I am. I am the true king 

And so are you 

 

Is it true that Self-Control/discipline is a fruit of the Spirit? A gift from God? 

How do we receive this gift?  

I have been speaking with Dan G and Michael O every morning. Authentic Intelligence University. 

Reading Kevin Vost “How to Think Like Thomas Aquinas” & C.S. Lewis “Reflections on the Psalms 

The kingdom of heaven is like a man who found a treasure hidden in a field. In his trembling joy he unearthed just a corner of that treasure, enough for him to realize just how large that treasure really was. In his joy, that man went and sold all that he had to buy that field.  

A Rich young man approached Jesus saying, what shall I do  

 

When I was 15 years old my dad brought three Daily Oklahoman paper routes into our home as a family project. Seven days a week. Three-hundred-sixty-five days a year. We began in November, just as it was getting really cold.  

On Sunday mornings the work started at 2:30am. The paper consisted of three different parts. Three small mountains of newsprint. When we first began, the truck delivered the papers directly to our home. Every morning, that big delivery truck chugged around the corner, airbrakes hissing to stop. We were the family sometimes screaming and hissing at one another. In the summer we left the garage door open for all the neighbors to hear. At one point they stopped delivering the papers to our home, and we had to go pick them up at the 7-11 every morning. On Sunday mornings that pickup bed was piled high, and the king cab and passenger seat was full too.  

Sleep deprivation was a very real part of our lives. I remember falling asleep in Geometry class when I was a sophomore, and in English class when I was a Senior. My dad was just trying to make ends meet. I have such compassion for that man now. Like me, he had a lot of different jobs. When he was a kid, his dad loaned him out to a local farmer for the summer. He pumped gas. He was in the Air Force, loading bombs on fighter jets and later operating the boom on a KC-135 refueler. He ran my grandpa’s glass shop for a little while. He sold insurance for several different companies. He sold Encyclopedias, World Books. He sold cars. He sold pest control. And then he brought those paper routes home for us all to deal with. It was serious business. 

He went away for some Air Force training when I was nineteen. I was living at home and going to college, studying music. When he went away to his Air Force training the paper route was my responsibility. When he came home from his boom operator school, my mother was gone. She left him. And I was there throwing the papers. He went crazy with grief. And we were there together, in the mornings, folding those papers together.  

He looked at me one morning and he said, “you are the reason she left me.” He was so hurt, red eyed, and mad with betrayal. His fingers clenched and trembled as he resisted the urge to grab me and crush me. But he didn’t grab me.  

My dad’s dad hurt him physically. But my dad never punched me or kicked me like his dad did to him. He just screamed at me until I cried. He could make me cry like that, just by screaming at me even after I was an adult. But he didn’t ever hit me. And I am grateful for that. I have to be. He did what he could do to make things better.  

Just like me, he vowed to be a better dad than his dad was. Which is pretty much exactly what I did. I tried to be a better father than my dad was. But vows have a way of failing us, or rather, we have a way of failing vows. Our inherited behavior has a way of sneaking up on us. As much as I tried to squash down all that anger, it erupted one night on my family. Hurt people hurt people. It’s not enough to say that I did the best I could. But I am glad that I can say that. I think my dad can probably say the same thing. 

When my anger finally erupted in my home I made a confession to one of my wife’s friends and then I started going to a therapist. I did a lot of talk therapy. I’ve already written a lot about that in a number of videos I have available online in my archive. They are confessions. They are cautionary tales. I’m doing my best to take responsibility for these generational curses. 

It was this devastation that brought me to God when I was twenty-two years old. And it is my hope in God that sustains me still today. I’m sorry for any wrong behavior that might have hurt you. Today, I am living my amends. That’s all I know to do. 

I thought that I could tune in to my wife’s needs. I thought that if I was a sensitive and caring man that I could fix it. I missed the mark. I over corrected. I gave away my power. And I have made quite a few videos already describing what that was like too. But, I’m still doing these repetitions. Each time I write about it, every time I reapproach I can talk about it all with some more perspective.  

I am not alone. Thank God, we are not alone. I have been working with men. And my story means something to them sometimes. I talk about the mistakes I made. This is a generational thing. We are all in this together. All the grandfathers. All the dads. All the kids. The ancestors. The descendants. We are all working together. I can see that now. God is with us. Love never fails. There is hope. 