Can we be certain that brother is dead? He lives in me. Just as this instance of Claude lives in me, all of you now
  One. My brother lives. It is an important statement in the overall theme of my work. My Brother Lives. I seen the
  light in you. {I was asked once by a younger man if I could play some Red Dirt. "Can you play sum Red Dirt?" I am
  the Red Dirt, Son. And so are you. L&tEoW} 

It occurred to me that this is a framework of knowing. Genetic drift was a
  fierce moral inventory. And honestly, I think I was focused on those bad stories because they were blocking the
  loving stories underneath. My Dad, for instance. I love him. I want him to be well. Be well, dad. But, my
  code-correction Savior is warrioring up, Praise God. I'm up to the Father's business. God bless you. 
I'm a ProdigalSon
Born to a ProdigalPeople
  I took three oaths to the constitution, 
I joined institutions with a real hear to serve
I submitted myself to fear-based-control systems until I realized that I was the one who was fearing and controlling.
  Somehow, I am still here.
Chop Wood
Carry Water


Never Fails

My daddy said he'd like to put a bullet in my head
he'd like to kill my momma too
he'd say, "You are the reason, I suffer like I do."
Don't you know I love you?"

Chorus:
I am the father
I am the son
I am the one who drove those nails
I AM the Ocean
I AM the Risen One
Our love
Our love
you know
She never fails
you know, you know, you know
Love Never Fails

We watched those buildings fall
number seven she's forgotten
but some of us did see
we may say the earth is flat
we may say Darwin's heart is rotten
but the heart of Christ still beats
constantly
the Mind of Christ She still thinks Kosmic-Lee

We raised our hands 
we spoke in tongues
our bodies shook for our salvation
Pure healing's born
deep in shadow lands
along with those academic incantations

Chorus

Oh God forgive her
she knows not what she does
she is sick. she is lonely. she is sad.
the bride of christ is broken
heaped there on the floor
thirsty for a drink she's never had

Chorus

