August 31 2019
journey

I begin at the campsite at johnson lake. The campsite that I went to by myself. It is night. It is the night that I was scared and i left my tent to be outside. It is very still. I remember the courgar skulking fear. The gollum fear. The fear of the clicking in the woods. But it is only still. Snake is on the large rock behind me. I jump into snake and we are flying through the air headed toward the axis mundi hole . the hole that was by the campsite. Now we are spiraling downward. No details only i can feel snake spiralling down beneath my physical body.  We go and go. I am supposed to stay hollowed out while my spirit follows snake. In the physical realm I am breathing . middle world is popping in but my spirit is following snake. I do not have to worry. I do not have to make anything happen i stay hollowed out. Let my spirit follow snake. I can still feel snake and spirit spiralling down below . now we are in forest. Green. Dark but not pitch black. We are in forest moving quickly quickly. I am bounding. There is bounding and snake is going this way and that in the forest and so am I . there is a stone. There are the ferns we do this for some time. I struggle with middle world and again i do not have to make anything happen. I must trust snake . i follow. I do not want to be responsible for making this happen, I have asked snake to help me. My middle world being has a migraine. I have asked for some kind of healing, without necessary relief of my symptoms. I trust snake for this healing. Show me what to do. Can I worship snake? Is this how this works. Or can i just trust snake. I do not feel that snake wants to be worshipped. Snake just needs me to stay hollowed out. Its’ okay if i don’t see all of this like a movie. It is all happening even below my consciousness. Show me how to walk in this world snake. Show me how to heal and be healed. Now we are at the ceremony place of snake clan. The towering snake and the black smoke and the whiteness/glowing of the ancestors in their spirit form. I see the figure on top of the snakes head that i once thought was me. Now i wonder if this is a permenant form in the snake clan ceremony area. It was not here the first time I came. Black smoke tendrils. I am spinning. I am trying to dance with ancestors. Images of the recreated people/ancestors from modern artists appear in my mind from my collection of recreated ancestors faces. I admit to ancestors that I do not know exactly what they look like.I want to know them for who they are. Not something else. Now the image of shiva in cosmos with cobra around neck is in my mind. Snake can be venomous. Snake can be constrictor. This preconceived image is in my head. Is this middle world. That’s middle world. The wondering. The doubt. I am open I do not know. I trust that snake is doing what snake is doing. Show me the way in this underworld. Help me to trust you. 



Sept 6 2019 shamanic journey

I am very careful. I am not feeling well. Woke at  three thirt;y with feelings of illness. I lay in bed hollowing out. But not quite. Preparation. Yes. that is what it is that is what it always is. That is always where we are going to the great hollowing out. Yes? So many thoughts. Any worth recounthing here? I move to the closet for what I do not know. I am aware ...aware of what...aware of futility of being without spirit? I am wiling. Willing to experience healing. Willing to be healed. Willing to be healing. Willing to participate in the great mystery? Willing to sit in silence. Willing to be still. I feeel lead somehow to try a healing for Stan. I’ve been hollowing out for a while consciously. I get the headpones and the phone for the drumtrack. (The keyboard allows me to have eyes closed and sit in upright posture right now. I give myself to Spirit.) What happened? Help me to remember. Or not remember. Or be. Or whatever. I sit in closet. Heapdphones plugged in. I hear the track. I wonder why. I decide to go with it. I put the headphones on remembering that the reason it is playing is because the phones were plugged in and it was the last thing I was listening to. But its’ also just playing. On the rock above the creek at johnson lake. I am careful now because the last time i was here a cougar grabbed me before I entered axis mundi and then snake was chopped in half as entering axis mundi so i stopped. So i sit, just recognizing that this place has a life of its own. Acknowledging the wisdom of snake. The wisdom and being of the lower world. The universal snake. I see and feel the presence of snake and I continue hollowing out in this process. I do not want an agenda. I do not need an agenda. I do not need for this to be anything. I have visions of snake. Snake is present along with the entire universe and the futility of humanity/man. I am lost without a guide. I am aware of the wisdom of any aggression that snake shows and I accept this aggression in my life. I realize that all of snakes bites or constrictions are serving the good of humanity and when snake attacks anyone it is because there needs to be a death. There is no malice. It is only life. It is the way things are. We must die in order to live. I sit and sit. Just willing to be here. It is night time in this place. I eventually begin to make my way up the hill to the axis mundi. Slowly this time. Observing. Seeing if snake is coming with me. I do not know what to do here. I am asking snake for help. I am asking snake to show me the way. I know, as human. I must proceed of my own will (I must have ego. I cannot completely abolish ego) but I am aksing for presence. I am observing. I am in black combat boots blue shorts, red shirt, the ground moves under my feet as i make my way up the hill slowly. I am at the top now the place i have not seen with my actual eyes, the place where the axis mundi is. I sit. I wait . i do not know if i should enter. Snake wraps himself around me. My head is sticking out of his coils. He gets tighter. This is how we become one tonight. I am embraced. I am safe. I wait and wait and wait in meditation. A whole twenty minute drum cycle passes. This is all a hollowing out. A whole cycle. Drum cycle ends . another drum cycle begins and so i approach the axis mundi. I am snake. Snake is me. We are one. Strange size distortions happen as i move toward the cave entrance. We become very very small where forward progress toward the hole is insignificant...but it is not insignificant because i am moving forward with snake and intention is everything here? I realize that a move forward is a move toward. And now we are moving in and down toward lower world . hollowing out. Asking snake for help with intention to heal stan. He has given permission. Yesterday at his house. He enthusiastically gives permission. So I proceed. We arrive in axis mundi. Dragon is there. I can never see his head. We wrap ourselves around dragon’s leg and melt into hi.m. this is the first time i have seen through dragons eyes. Taller up here. Dragon spreads wings and begins to sore above the clouds. Moonlit night. We sore and sore and sore above the clouds. For some time. Continuing to hollow out and give up any agenda. Moving between lower world and middle world thoughts. We approach the clouds and go under. There is stan. He is sitting on a hill. Leaning against a small, leafless tree. Is it winter time or is the tree dead. I do not know. It seems dead. His head is bowed. He sits. I am aware he is sleeping at home. That’s middle world stuff though. Eventually i approach stan after more hollowing out. Stan i say. How can i help you. I did not ask stan for anything specific yesterday. Stan opens his eyes and they are the eyes of a snake/reptile/dragon. Vertical slits. We fly into the eyes. There is lots of space in here. We have shrunk and now we are flying around stan but also flying in stan’s head. I trust that dragon /snake is doing the healing. I do not know what it is. I just fly and let whatever it is that is being done be done. I do not know what to do. I just watch as we fly around the hill on the outside of stan and inside stans head. I wonder if we will ever get to stan’s heart. I do not know. The drum starts beating fast now and the time is over. I thank dragon and snake. I wish stan well. Peace peace peace. 
