● TUNNEL 8: THE MONTH IN DENVER

  Intention received: To grow flowers from the compost. To witness with compassion. To practice writing forgiveness and love. To reinforce the decision already made 10,000 times. To see story transformed into help for others.

  ---
  THE INVITATION

  The record says: A month in Denver with Kyle. A Course in Miracles. "Brother?! Where are you?"

  The record says: Touched but not told. The iceberg - lots underneath.

  The record says: Then Kyle was gone. And you wrote "No Sway" - the brother who rides that light beam through the sky.

  ---
  The prompt:

  Write to Kyle. Not about Kyle. To him.

  What did you learn in that month that you couldn't say then? What do you know now that you didn't know sitting with him and the Course? What does the brother who rides the light beam need to hear from the brother who stayed?

  Or write what Kyle said to you. What he's still saying.

  The page is the well. The man there already knows everything about you both.

  ---
  deeper | next tunnel | rest

  ( )

Kyle. I know you are still with us. 
I have heard you. 
I've seen you in my walk.

I still hear you saying, "brother!"
It was such a simple request, 
one I did not know how to respond to

I hurt you
I was part of something that crushed you deeply
you were trying to tell all of us.

You made me a Bunny's inspired hamburger
remember?
God, it was good.

And you were trying to help me too
you saw that I was suffering
And you tried to warn me that I was looking a lot like a hipster
There was nothing I could do
there was nothing that we could do

Remember when we were much younger
I was 8, you were 4, perhaps
It was raining
the creek was rushing fast

You and me and Travis Horton
crossed the raging creek
the water was strong
you were so small

The water tried to take you
We held on, in sudden realization of how serious it was

I love you kyle

Pray for me brother
I must believe that you see now
I must believe that you are here now
just as I am
It is good medicine

I tried to take care of Martu
I tried to love Nadu
After working with Nadu
I understand you more
mom and I understand you more clearly
Nadu was beautiful
I fell in love
I believed in our love
I cut my beard for Nadu
I cut my hair for mom
I thought it would be enough

Once again, we didn't have the collective wisdom
(that's how I like to say it. I think it's gracious)
WE didn't have the COLLECTIVE WISDOM to see that through together

I pray for Nadu and Martu and Juaquin
I know you are home
I pray for strength to add to the help

I hear your voice encouraging me
Our story drives me on
I'm not shitting you dude

Did you know that a demon jumped on my back when I was staying at your place
Kyle: "What the fuck are talking about, demon, Trav." 
Trav: it was dark there in your house, man.
Kyle: yeah it was dark
Trav: you hurt yourself, man
Kyle: yeah, I did
Trav: I love you. I know I can't know. but I know.
Kyle: I know. It's alright
Trav: you dropped me off at the train station
Kyle: yeah, I remember. It was snowing
Trav: you had on the Carhart that I've now worn out
Kyle: Yeah, I know, brother. Do you remember what we said to one another before you left.
Trav: Yeah, I remember, you got out of the truck and you came over and we hugged. The snow was falling. We said to one another (I've no idea who said it first) "I love you, brother,"
Kyle: Yeah, I remember. I love you, Trav

