August 24 2019

Woke at 4am today, feeling nervous about going to visit Joseph in Albuquerque. Left the guitar at home. Drove 5 miles down the Floyd highway, turned around to come back and get it. Discursive thoughts on the road. Maybe not thoughts as much as disturbing and undefinable emotions. Aware that my emotional sobriety rests in the possibility of not taking up any new resentments. Thinking about the following exchange with Janice:

Janice: "I think you must be a horrible man. I can't believe you can talk about peace and love while you treat human beings as heartlesslessly as you do. You hurt me terrible. You make me think humans can't be trusted. What the hell is wrong with you? If you had a problem with me you should have had the decency to talk to me about it. You could have talked to me and said you couldn't stand me or whatever the fuck your problem wa. But you didn't have to make such a dick move as to text me and then give me the silent treatment and go around talking your peace crap. You have damaged me. I trusted you. You fucked with my head because you talk about spiritual things but you acted Luke a dick."
Fuck you Travis.
I regret knowing you. I don't regret many people. Even people who have abused me. But you were a recovery friend. You fucked with my soul. You have damaged me.
 

Travis Erwin <travisrwn1@gmail.com>
	Fri, Aug 23, 8:57 AM (1 day ago)		  

to Janice 
	
I apologize for my shortcomings. I apologize for any injury that I have caused you.

I pray for your well being. I pray that somehow you will find something deeper for yourself from this situation.

I pray for your continued forward progression every day, and I wish you well. I thank you for all that I learned from you. You are truly an amazing person.
Sincerely


Later this day, this one comes:

I'm sorry too. I could echo the words back to you. I feel terrible thinking I have caused you harm. I never meant to. Please forgive me.
I learned so much from you. It hurts too much to tell you all I've learned and how things are changing for me. Just know that I was able to take a very deep breath and let it go.
I pray for your continued health and growth. I won't be a pain in the ass and I really hope I am healed enough not to cry at meetings because I know it makes people uncomfortable. I have a problem. I'm working on it.
Thank you for the compliment, but I am about as amazing as a fish---in the high plains.'Be at peace. Thank you for contacting me to say goodbye. It was awful the other way. This is easier. We can still say hello at meetings this way without me crying. Blub blub blub


Thinking about Kyle, whom I have blocked from my messages who has reached out to me through mom a couple times now. 

I arrive in ABQ. central avenue. I park at Wendy’s, way down the road from the university. In larger cities you have to get a key to use the bathroom. I walk several blocks down central, get uncomfortable about my guitar in my car. I go back, move my car further down the road, get my guitar out of the back, go to the campus, sit and play easter song instrumentally, waiting for Joseph to contact me. I see a "perfectly fit man" with his daughter. I see another man on his cell phone. I see statues of people. Joseph arrives on his longboard. He looks great. He looks happy. We weave through the UNM campus finally finding his dorm (Hokona room 208) his roomate’s name is London. They seem to be a good match. He is a thin and serious young man kind of like joseph. Is joseph serious? I do not know. Is london serious? I don’t know. I sit on his bed. He is taking a Darwin class. He shows me his book. He gets out his guitar and plays blackbird. And “hey there delilah”....books stacked in his open closet clothes arranged neatly. He is on the honors floor. There is such a connection between us. Joseph calls it a “convergence of consciousness”. I am so grateful for this time that I have with him. We go to the Brazilian restaurant. I relay the stages of consciousness. I revel in the fact that I have a son who seems to be at a transrational level of consciousness. He is young. Where was I when I was 19? I do not know. It does not matter. We are here now. Joseph and I, sitting at Toucano’s eating the meat as they bring it to our table. A small wooden dowel with red on one end, green on the other, and yellow in the middle. Place the dowel with green facing up and they bring you more meat. We stuff ourselves with meat. We talk about evolving consciousness, our consciousness converging.

My mother has offered to pay my credit card debt and school loans off. I have accepted the offer.
Joseph and I go to Office depot. I buy him a nice back pack and a slip for his new samsung, an extension cord, a mouse, some pencils. I buy myself a samsung chromebook just like he has ordered. I feel good to have bought him something to make his life good at school. I am very proud of my son. He shows me the center of the universe.

I go to eat with London and Joseph at their cafeteria. This is a young person’s world. Young men and dozens of girls in short shorts. Two slices of pizza and a plate of vegetables and fruit. London asks me “what do you do.” 
Joseph and I have a conversation as he’s walking me to my car. He had an emotional moment after I bought him the backpack. I drive him across campus, closer to his dorm. He is a grateful son. We are making peace with each other and the divorce. I am breathing. Maybe I say too much. I do not know. I am breathing right now. Give it some space. Raw details. Joseph and i play guitar together in his dorm room. There is so much stimulus. ABQ is such a different place. Homeless people on the streets talking to themselves. So many choices. So many places to eat. I have no profound thoughts. Joseph said that it was a very good day for him. That means a lot to me. This is all so painful right now. I am right on the edge of migraine. 

Man talking to himself in the median. Man laying on the concrete at the coffee shop. Looking at books with Joseph at the used book store. Paying the parking meter with the credit card. Joseph asking me to get off the bed so that he can situate the refrigerator. Lemonade at the brazilian restaurant

Busy mind what is going on? Fingers on home row i am screaing with thought inside. hamburger last night. Ice cream. Masturbation. Brazilian meat today. Powerless and unmanageable.sick feeling in my head. Migraine? I am powerless to maintain my spiritual practice. I feel a mess.  A breath here. A breath there. This town is too much. What is too much? What does it mean to reach out to god for help?. Not feeling well in my body. Sickness in my head. God help me. How do i reach out for help? So much youth today. My eyes wandered to young women’s asses in short shorts. Feasted for long moments. Acceptance. Is it the answer?who am i right now? Wheree is my consciousness? Can i become the one who is satisfied? Can I rely on god to help me. Can i become dependent.? Fingertips on the keyboard. Organizational skills. How lost am i? Who is this I?. snake? Are you there? Can you help me? Can you heal me? 
