September 2, 2019

Love Letter to Snake:

Thank you for devouring me so many years ago when that was exactly what I needed. Thank you for your kindness and compassion. Thank you for your silence. Thank your for your patience. Thank you for being there for me yesterday when I was, once again, back in the shower, my suffering father screaming at me. Thank you for being aggressive for me when I could not be. Thank you for doing for me what I could not do. Thank you for changing that scenario in my mind. Thank you for showing me the lower world. I hope that we can take many more journeys together. Sometimes I feel very excited about the possibility of having a safe, yet adventurous place to be with you. Thank you for introducing me to Snapping Turtle, Tadpole, Lucy, Mammoth, and Mother Cougar. I do not know how to do all of this but I am grateful that you are willing to show me how to do this? I want to trust you? Can you teach me about trust? Can you teach me about how to be a good friend? Will you continue to heal me and protect me in ways that I am unable to do for myself?

I am curious about Dragon too. I am curious about how to really be in the lower world. I am so grateful for this experience. I am so grateful for the cliff, and the waterfall, and the bench (which I do not know if it is still there)? Is the bench destroyed because it is time to move on and explore other parts of the world. Is it time to fly with Dragon? I would like to be more acquainted with The Mystery, the non-objectifiable intrapersonal reality, this subjective and sacred experience. Can you please help me to fall in love? Help me to learn how to find safe places to shed my skin. Please help me to be born again. Acquaint me with the vast mysteries of the universe so that I can be an expression of love in this hurting world. Please help me to connect with the guides and Spirits and Animals that can help me in this healing process. I was astounded when I read that last chapter that I wrote in Genetic drift. I'm going to try and find it now….


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From GENETIC DRIFT:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Ageless Ophidian

Now I enjoy breath
A miracle of being
I share it with you

The boy, having been first crushed, then consumed by the constrictor, became the nutrients that fueled and formed the ageless ophidian. He was now one with the snake. The boy's proteins added to the serpents' muscles, his minerals strengthened bones, his lipids were stored as a thin layer of fat under basilisk skin. The boy could no longer be afraid of the snake because he was the snake.

The snake was one with all. He did not understand separation. For the snake, there was no other—no separation from the world outside him. His bites contained no malice. His contractions no rage. In eating the boy he had only done what snakes do.

Now the boy saw through the snakes eyes. And through the snakes eyes he had no resentment toward the snake for having consumed him. The boy rested in silence, one with the snake, in that ancient, animal meditation—the silence that was before language. The silence that is without story, where all focus is on physical sense. The silence which cannot be spoken. The silence which cannot be broken. Only known. only felt. No description. No justification. The silence for which there is no distraction, any sound only accentuating emptiness. This is the silence that man fears.

In this silence there was no fear, and therefore no need for courage. Hate no longer was, so there was no anger. His breaths came slowly now. In.......out......

Then, the boy awoke.

He awoke from this dream, into another dream in which it was he who had consumed the snake. The snake was part of him. The snake's mind was embedded in his DNA, its coding present in every cell of his body. Now he knew what the snake knew.

The boy sensed a tightness. A restlessness. And he instinctively knew. He knew that it was time to shed his skin. He found a quiet place—a place where he could not be harmed—where he would not be disturbed, and he began remembering. He began remembering how he had feared. He recounted these stories that have been told here. And as he wrote, he realized that words can only address the past and future. There is no language for the present. As a word is heard, it is already in the past. And even the future, when once it is reached, quickly becomes the past.

The boy began his molt. He knew how to wait.

He often forgot the important things he knew. But he re-learned, over and over again, how to be here. He re-learned these lessons—The lessons that humans have been learning even before our ancestors were human. The ancient lessons from Africa, long before Africa had a name. The lessons that began before language. The lessons of quiet, and calm, and nurturing in the face of danger and suffering. The lesson of the strawberries and the tigers. The lessons of courage. The lessons of struggle. And the lessons of surrender. The lessons of holding on, and the lessons of letting go. The deep lessons of being and non-being. The lessons of life... and death. All these he had learned from his friend, the one he had feared so long ago... the ageless ophidian....

End of autobiography


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

"You only have to let the soft animal of your body love what it loves."
- Mary Oliver
