Moral Foundations Theory
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=po635Rra70c

Why would you want to listen to a
teaching on morality? Because it will
help you to understand why some people
piss you off so badly and why it's so
easy to get along with others. 

I'm going to base this teaching on Jonathan
Haidt's Moral Foundations Theory, which
I learned about in his book, The
Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are
Divided by Religion and Politics.
Jonathan Haidt describes five pillars of morality. 

Some people, for one reason or another tend to be
more aware of certain pillars than
others. Each pillar consists of two
values that appear to be in opposition to one
another. 

1. CARE/HARM
Pillar one, care versus harm.
Some of us consider ourselves to be
pacifists while others profit from the
manufacturing of war machines. Some of
us don't like the sight of a gun while
others see the utility value and the
function of gun as very useful. Some of
us won't eat an animal while others will
eat.

2. Number two, 
-sanctity and degradation
     -cleanliness and dirtiness or the 
     -sacred and profane. 

Some of us don't want to
use a curse word while others make an
art form out of it. Some people believe
that cleanliness is next to godliness.
For how many seconds does a piece of
food have to be on the ground before you
will not pick it up and eat it? 

3. Number three,
-authority and subversion

Do you tend to fall in line? Do you tend
to believe it because someone told you
to believe it? Are you okay generally
with the status quo, with the way things
are? or do you believe that um truth
comes from seeing past all of that? Do
you march to the beat of your own drum?
Do you have to prove it for yourself
experientially?

4. Number four,
-loyalty and betrayal

Do
you have a favorite sports team that
you've been with all of your life? Have
you always been of one political party?
Have you attended the same church all of
your life and adhered to its teachings?
Are you patriotic? Have you had all the
same friends all of your life? Or do you
kind of move around from friend group,
from place to place, uh discovering
different things in different places,
kind of betraying the the raising that
was given to you?

5. And number five,
-fairness versus cheating

Are you
willing to break the rules to get ahead?
Will you skip in line? Do you feel proud
of yourself when you've cheated someone?
Are you comfortable getting something
for nothing? Or do you feel that you
must bring some kind of value to the
world? Do you get really upset when
someone skips in line or when someone
cheats?
Years ago, I found myself in a work
environment where I was just not aligned
with my colleagues. I realized that our
value systems were just very different.
And I was just getting pissed off,
irritated on a daily basis. And about
that time, this book came to me. You
know how that happens sometimes? Books
come to you. When the student is ready,
the teacher comes, they say. And this
book came to me at a time when I was
just ready for it. I'm not preaching it
to you. I'm not saying it's the gospel
truth. I'm not saying it's the only way
to understand morality. This is just one
way that I came into a rational
understanding of morality. The book
helped me to understand how other people
were valuing life and experience
differently than I was.
One exercise I did recently is I went
into the ten commandments. I I tried to
see if I could take each of the ten
commandments and put them under one of
these five categories. And I did. It was
a little bit vague sometimes. Sometimes
it seemed like it might fit into more
than one category. But that's what
learning is like. That's why we have
categories because life isn't really
compartmentalized like this. But that
can help us to understand things
sometimes. So next time somebody really
pisses you off, instead of getting
carried away with it, you might just be
like, "Whoa, where are they violating my
morality?"
For myself, when I can describe
something, it lowers my anxiety levels.
Sometimes it can lower my fear levels.
If I can talk about something, if I can
name it, if I can explain what's going
on, then it it puts me in my rational
mind. It gives it helps me to um to come
to a place of reason about what's going
on. Otherwise, I tend to demonize
people. I will uh take my own
self-righteous stance and I will just uh
other that person. But if I can
understand morality along a rational
framework, then at least I still might
be angry and I still might believe
they're wrong, but at least I can uh
contextualize the whole experience.
If you found this content to be
valuable, please give me a like or a
share or a subscribe. Thanks a lot. May
the Lord bless you and keep you. Cause
his face to shine upon you.