
The Origin of A Course in Miracles
The origin of A Course in Miracles (ACIM) is a subject of much discussion and debate. The book was dictated to Helen Schucman by an inner voice, which she later identified as Jesus Christ. Schucman's process of inner dictation began in 1965, and the writing of ACIM was completed in 1972. The book consists of three parts: the "Text," the "Workbook for Students," and the "Manual for Teachers." Schucman's claim that the book was dictated by Jesus Christ has been met with both praise and criticism, leading to a wide range of interpretations and discussions about its authorship and teachings.


A Course In Miracles (Trav's condensed remembrance):

The whole course can be summed up in these two statements:
Nothing real can be threatened.
Nothing unreal exists.

What is our function? Our function is Forgiveness. It is our only function.

A Course In Miracles does not exist.
Neither do we.
ACIM does not require belief.
Only attention to that which is REAL.
God is all that is real.
What we see before us, everything in our sense realm,
is an illusion. 

We live in an illusory world.

The reason that I think I am upset
is not the real reason at all.

Once I realize that you I am not separate from God,
I also realize that I do not have problems,
at least in the way I thought I did.

Happiness is our responsibility.

The curriculum of the course is not optional.
It's up to us when we take the course.

There are no big miracles.
There are no small miracles.
There are no easy miracles.
There are no hard miracles.
All miracles are a manifestation of love,
of equal importance and value.

If we are not seeing miracles,
something is wrong.

We are one with God.
We have never left heaven.
One simple and pure act of forgiveness
would end this illusion forever.
therefore...

Train your mind. 

Did you assume that these words have meaning?
None of this has the "meaning" that you thought.

There is no suffering.
There is no loss.
There is no sickness.
These are all manifestations of ego.
Get over it.

Train your mind.
You've forgotten who you are.

Forgiveness is your only function.

Nothing need be said after the following statement is made: God is.
