Part 2: Red Church, Blue Church, I Church, You Church
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yu-sAwnPqLU
July 30 2025


This is part two of red church, blue church, I church, you church. This series is a testimonial and a confession about what it's like to swing from one political mindset to another, from right to left, left to right, what it's like to go through the middle. Maybe you know this in yourself.

I'm addressing the ideologies and the isms. Feminism, Marxism, Darwinism, conservatism, liberalism.

I believe that it is important that each of us embody a full measure of the conservative and a full measure of the liberal. The conservative in us is that which conserves that which brings the wisdom of the past forward with us. And the liberator is the one who liberates us from all the lies of the past and the oppressions. I believe it is only by the spirit of God that we can bring forward that which still has value from our past, the wisdom of our ancestors while also being liberated.

I got this encouraging comment from Lukewinsky on the first episode. He says, "I love the way you love people. I'm looking forward to hearing more, my man. Left and right are a long way from one another. Actually, you can't get any further from the right if you're on the left. I can't help to feel like that's indoctrinated into us. When we are against each other, neither side wins. Together in Christ, we are unstoppable. Freedom is just another word for nothing left to lose. Ain't that true? Thanks, Chris Kristofferson and Janis Joplin for singing that. We're free because they say we're free. True freedom come in the blood of Christ. Thank you for bringing up these topics."

And I respond to him:

I have learned some things over the course of these last five years of content creation. Thank God I am still capable of opening my heart to learn and grow.

I have learned that I can create in the darkest of times. I've learned that God is okay with my creative process being messy. Dance like David did. He corrects me through loving kindness. His mercy sustains me through my curious and messy human experience.

I've learned that I can say no to people. God has taught me how to walk away from people who are not capable of respecting me and the gifts that God has given me. In fact, walking away is one way that he has shown me to steward his gifts appropriately. Shake the dust off your feet. As I walk away from disrespectful situations and people in love, I walk deeper into God's heart and his provision. And that is how he develops my trust in him.

God has shown me that I can speak my heart in love when I sense in my spirit that something is not quite right here. He does not require me to stay in situations that smother my gifts and that threaten to strangle me. I speak in love, ready to bear the consequences, ready to share in his sufferings.

He has shown me how to respect the life that he has given me. And that inner love, that self-respect shines out into this world as love for my neighbor. I am loving my neighbor as I love myself. Love for God and love for neighbor are not exactly separate. Right?

I have learned that I don't need a large audience to be a satisfied artist.

And I have learned to love the whole audience like Jesus did as he hung from the cross. That relationship to Jesus and his sufferings is what God has really been getting at in me as he's been burning up all the performance, the people-pleasing aspects of my life and my art. In other words, he puts me on stage to burn up my desire to please people. Every time I make a great video that hardly anyone cares about, there is the fire again. Praise God. Praise God.

Jesus was lifted up and the earth shook and the veil was rent and the moon went blood red and there were very few courageous enough to watch that play out. He was relating to an audience the whole world that crucified him because he was speaking the parables that his father was speaking. They didn't like the material. They didn't like the jokes. They didn't like the stories.

And he looked out upon all of us on that day through all the ages, all creation, the beginning to the end, and he said, "I love you all, and I'm going to do this for you, even though you have given me this terrible review. Father, forgive them."

They don't know a good show when they see one. They don't know an authentic show. They don't know a loving show. They don't know love when it stares them in the face. He came to his own, but his own could not receive him. And that is the beautiful and terrible tragedy that has played out in our lives when we surrender our lives to God.

I love my audience like Jesus loved his audience. And that is the best gift that God has given me in all this content creation. In all my performances and all of my learning to play music in front of people and write for people, God allows me to channel his mercy and grace through my ridiculously flawed human form and experience. He grows a testimony in me and allows me to relate it now with humor, laughing at myself sometimes, sometimes. And mostly not knowing what the heck I'm doing. He smiles at me and he corrects me and I grieve when I hurt his children with my content.

I'm talking about viewing all of life as content creation. What kind of content am I creating?

I grieve the fact that I failed my first wife. I did not have any true leadership skills when I married at 23 years old. I had an anointing. I had a gift of faith, but I did not have the character required to be a loving and helpful husband. And when things got difficult, I crumbled. And when I see the results of my faithlessness on my marriage and my children, I weep and gnash my teeth. Literally, dude.

And as I face that terrible failure in myself, God also allows me to see this mighty man in myself. This man who was fighting to not ever give up. This man who sacrificed himself for his wife like Jesus sacrificed himself for his bride. I saw the sickness of man, all of humanity in myself and how I was born into sin.

And so I prayed that God would burn me up. That's the prayer I prayed when I was 25.

My wife, she had the practical tools and the character sufficient to run our home and care for the kids. So I took the pills they said would make me better. And I cleaned the kitchen. And I announced to everyone that I was sick and broken. And I reached out for help at every turn until I realized there was no help but God.

And when she saw that I was turning to God, she wouldn't have any of that. And when I did my best to start recovering my self-respect, there was an unholy spirit in her, my responsibility that wanted to shame me and put me back down into my place of subjection and servitude and darkness.

But God wouldn't have it any longer.

And so I continued in a super messy fashion to try and get liberated. And that led to correction after correction after correction. And now it seems that nothing I put my hand to will prosper. And now I beg God to correct me further because I am exhausted in the most grateful of ways, in the most graceful of ways, waiting for what I know only God can do.

I pray for my ex-wife, my ex-wives, and my children who now understandably want nothing to do with their fallen father. I pray that my children will one day be able to see the risen Christ in me. I pray that God will do this for his name's sake.

I long to be held in the body of Christ, and I have yet to see a body that can hold me.

And so I make these videos and I talk to one person at a time and I wait for the Holy Spirit to guide me into a place always hoping for home. And I walk away from people and places that cannot hold me. I walk away with the fear of God upon me, praying for my neighbors, praying for my enemies, praying for those who have hurt me. His mercy endures forever.

My hope is in the resurrected Christ. There is nothing good in me except for him.

I did the best that I could to lead my family out of Bible belt fundamentalism, which I felt was incredibly lacking in compassion. And that's how I found myself in the blue church in the left, that place where we seek compassion.

And it was Jesus who told me that he was incredibly concerned about justice, social justice. And it was through men like Martin Luther King Jr. and Mahatma Gandhi and Malcolm X that I came to understand the Christ in all and all in the Christ.

The chosen people are poor in spirit. We are the ones who can't seem to find a home. We feel like we are in exile and we cry out to God. And I am numbered among those homeless now.

I have been delivered from Egypt. I have gone through the parted Red Seas and I am in the wilderness trying to learn how to cross over into that promised land. Maybe you too can relate to that story.

May the Lord bless you and keep you, cause his face to shine upon you, be gracious to you, and give you peace.

---

Here's another response I got from the first episode. He says, "Karl Marx, a demonic drug fiend who couldn't take care of his family and got used by capitalists who wanted bankers with no responsibility to replace kings who at least had a responsibility to the people."

Okay, Keystone.

Yeah, I understand it. I can be demonized for seeing the humanity in Karl Marx. I get it. But I think, you know, that's I guess loving people and seeing people and seeing ideas and studying, getting curious about ideologies and stuff. I guess it's the danger that I face. So forgive me for having grace for Karl Marx. It doesn't mean that I'm a communist. That doesn't mean that I follow his ideology.
