Part 3: Red Church, Blue Church, I Church, You Church
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6ui84iogtc
July 31, 2025


Hi, I am Full Spectrum Trav and you are joining me for part three of Red Church, Blue Church, I Church, You Church.

I was born again in the red church, the Bible belt of Oklahoma. And I was told that the Bible was the inerrant infallible word of God. I did not question what that meant.

But eventually when I realized that the four gospels do not precisely agree with one another in their conveyance of the good news of Christ, I did begin to wonder what that meant when I was told that the Bible was the inerrant, infallible, perfect word of God. A perfectly written book with no errors, inspired in its entirety by the spirit of God.

Because my spirit had been awakened in great part by my relationship to the sacred text of the Bible, I could never discount it in its entirety. Even as I made my Exodus journey from the red church to the blue church.

Academia was my blue church.

I was given an office at the university and allowed to teach music one-on-one. And I got to teach the history of rock and roll to a large class of incoming freshmen. From this bully pulpit, I became an unwitting mouthpiece of a liberal agenda. My journey from the red church to the blue church, I believe at the time, qualified me to speak about what it meant to be liberated.

For those of you who were adversely affected by my hubris, I ask for your forgiveness.

I have certainly felt like at times that there has been a millstone tied around my neck. And I accept that it may be possible. It's because I led you astray. God have mercy on me. God help us all.

Sex, drugs, and rock and roll. That was the class. So I felt liberated to teach about liberation.

I guess plurality is beautiful. It is the awakening to the possibility that behind every face resides the spirit of God and that every individual walks a somewhat unique path toward the center. If there is any truth in the statement that truth is relative, that's what plurality is. It is the wisdom of the Hindus as they see 10,000 gods as telling the story of the one Brahman.

Plurality says that we are each a heavenly poem, each an expression of the good news of Christ, each writing our own version of the gospel truth with our own lives. Every content creator, a creative and unique expression of God's absolute truth.

However, when plurality becomes a dogma, it insists that there is no absolute truth. Every individual determines for himself what the truth is. In its most fascist form, I must insist that you acknowledge my lived experience as truth. And if you do not acknowledge my individual truth, then you should be punished.

Maybe you can see in that description how a beautiful thing like plurality can become almost exactly like what it believed it was freeing us from in the first place, dogmatic religion.

Plurality frees us to each have and cherish our own lived experience. Pluralism wants to force you to acknowledge lived experience.

And so it is with every ideology that earns its ism. And humans are experts at turning most every idea into an ism. And we call that idealism.

And that is why every idealist must suffer unto the death of self in the release of our personal idyllic vision of the way things are supposed to be.

And suffer we do.

Behind every utopic vision is an idealist. And every idealist will suffer in their attempts to realize their ideal. But by no means should the idealist ever stop trying. God forbid. For it is in the exhaustion of the ideal that love is finally realized. And exhaust ourselves we will as many times as it takes.

And that is exactly what ideals are for. That is exactly what religion is for.

And that's why Jesus said, "Be perfect as I am perfect." He was giving us the license to wear ourselves out in the name of Jesus. Jesus, the ideal man, the sinless one, the one who said, "You are free from all the ideals. You are free from the law. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as yourself."

We may come to see a beautifully intelligent idealist in the life of Karl Marx, for instance, who correctly assessed the sin and selfishness of the human soul in his description of end-stage capitalism, and yet wrongly assumed that a centralized government run by that same sinful heart of man could care for its people.

The first generation of Christians sold all they had and shared with one another. They were creating communes as a natural expression of the communion they were sharing in Christ. And yet communism, as we discovered, is not quite helpful when the human heart is barely capable of governing itself in small communal groups of 12 to 70 individuals.

Centralized government, I believe, will never be able to care for people. People care for people. God cares for people through people.

At the university, I became a feminist.

I used to say, "A man need not look further than his own wife to encounter the marginalized."

Maybe you thought I was exaggerating when I said I became a feminist. No, I was a feminist in practice. And as my study of history showed me over and over again how the white patriarch had screwed it all up, I became more devoted to my feminist practice. I listened deeply to the feminists in my wife's English department and I studied under them and I learned a great deal.

And at the end of that ascetic practice, at the end of that study where the deconstruction of the self had drifted into deconstructionism, I was a broken man barely able to stand the sight of my own disgusting masculinity.

The feminist destroyed by feminism.

And every attempt I made to free myself from that snare was resisted by the very woman whose liberation was my utmost concern, my wife. And that spirit of feminism said to me, "You sick and weak man, get back to work. What is wrong with you? If you can't get back to work, then you need to get the on down the road."

And this is what I mean when I say that I died for my wife like Christ died for the church.

Although I can honestly say I died that death, I am not saying that I am the ideal man. I am a well-meaning weak sinful idealist.

I am not that sinless archetype that we see in Jesus. I was born into sin and when I tried to atone for my sin I was utterly destroyed.

And I still say that the idealist should exhaust himself. And in that exhaustion, by the grace of God, we may be born again.
